Distributed Systems: Introduction (CO3404)




    Dr Tony Nicol BSc (hons), MSc, PhD, MIET, CEng, FHEA, FBCS, CITP

              DWP:    Head of Engineering: tony.nicol@dwp.gov.uk
              UCLAN: Senior Lecturer in Computer Science: ajnicol@lancashire.ac.uk
My background
▸   Working in Industry and academia for 50 years. A few examples:                        Industry
▸   Royal Marines Commando
▸   Marine Research: sonar system for nuclear Subs – Electronics /Software Engineer
▸   Naval Systems: sonar system for Trident class sub – Electronics / Software Engineer   CO3404

▸   Crypto: Crypto systems. Hardware, Software, Firmware
▸   UCLAN: Electronics Engineering, Computing, Software Engineering Course Leader
                                                                                          Academia
▸   University of Liverpool: taught MSc in Computer Security & Cyber Forensics
▸   DWP: Solution Architect, Technical Architect, Data Architect, Deputy Director
▸   Back at UCLAN




                                                                                                     2
The value of this module
▸   Enable development of current industry best practice skills and knowledge
▸   Full blown distributed systems are mainly used in large enterprises – i.e. big and complex
▸   Large organisations (enterprise) include Gov departments, large retailers such as Amazon, Asda, Banks
▸   Most large organisations are going through a technology and data transformation – you need to be part
    of that, and this module will ensure you are, as that’s where the well-paid jobs are
▸   This module aims to give you a taste of the real world of IT so you stand out at interview and can be part
    of the next generation to develop enterprise systems with new technological approaches
▸   Distributed systems is a huge topic, so I’ll concentrate on the current & future and not dwell on the past




                                                                                                                 3
Job prospects




                4
Relevant snippets
▸   There are other surveys of course …




                                          5
Module aims summary
▸   1. Create a distributed system application
     ▹    Week by week I'll help you build on previous weeks leading to two assignments to create a distributed system
     ▹    This will be built up practically with practical exercises were each week builds on the previous
▸   2. Key design concepts such as scalability, security, heterogeneity, concurrency and containerisation.
▸   3. Analyse technologies and patterns
▸   4. How modern distributed systems support business
▸   5. The need to deliver business value rather than technical perfection
▸   These 5 areas are a rough outline and don’t carry equal weight. We will spend a lot more time on the
    technology, but you do need to understand how it relates to business needs and constraints


▸   Assessment is in the form of a major assignment and an exam weighted at 50% and 50%


▸   My approach is: lecture 1h, demo/tutorial/Q&A 1h (2h alternate weeks) - drop-in labs
▸   May be lecture and demos in both depending on the relevance and timing

                                                                                                                         6
It is essential to practice!
▸   Lectures - are valuable but can't rely on them alone
▸   Reading - you need to re-read the slides as they are
    comprehensive. Research areas needing detail
▸   Audio visual - make sure you watch the videos I
    create. Don't think a 1 hour video takes one hour to
    watch - you will need to pause and research
▸   Demonstrations - will be provided most weeks
    illustrating practical implementation of concepts. You
    should also do the demos to move into active learning
▸   On the active learning side, this is learning by doing
▸   Group discussion - collaborative quizzes
▸   Practice by doing - you will have lab exercises -
    problem solving and implementing solutions will
    improve retention and understanding. This is an
    ESSENTIAL component of learning
▸   You will be given demonstration code to work with to
    provide a learning framework building the skills
    needed mainly for the assessed major assignment.
    Run study, understand and experiment with them
▸   Teaching others - interactive sessions. If answering
    questions in class is unbearable, tell me privately
                                                             7
Feedback from last year before we get started

▸   Positives
     ▹    Some students did extremely well with grades in the 80s and two at 100% for coursework
     ▹    "I got a job at the BBC directly because of this module"
     ▹    "I didn't like the look of this module but now understand its importance in industry. It's now my favorite module"
     ▹    "After discussing my microservices assignment I was offered a job at first interview"
     ▹    "Having demos to work with to get an understanding of key concepts helped enormously with my assignment"
     ▹    "This module directly helped me with my project. I changed the architecture to microservices"
     ▹    You get the idea …


▸   The knowledge I gained from you during the Distributed Systems module was absolutely invaluable for my work in
    this team. My understanding of APIs, how they work, and how they run in the cloud was extremely helpful and it
    meant that I was able to start working on tickets and pushing code changes to production in my first week. Thank you
    again for making your module so insightful, engaging, and up to date with the industry.




                                                                                                                               8
Challenges
▸   A substantial number of students failed. My observations and feedback from students:
     ▹     Missing classes. Attendance is monitored. If you get behind, tell me and we can work out how to catch-up
     ▹     Underestimated the module. "I thought it was web development so expected to breeze through. That was a big mistake"
     ▹     Poor planning. Spent too much time on other modules or project - need to distribute time effectively
             ▹      Achievement coaches are available to talk to if you are struggling with planning, motivation, confidence building etc. ecanuti2@uclan.ac.uk

     ▹     Listening but not hearing. "I'll watch the videos when I need to": procrastination is a very flawed strategy
             ▹      Note the learning pyramid - you need continuous learning and practice to consolidate - binge learning doesn't work on challenging technical courses

     ▹     Missing demos - these build the framework for the assignments. I build up week by week, you must practice then consolidate over the whole year
     ▹     Not undertaking personal study - this is essential each week if you are to do well in the assignments - 152 hours is minimum
     ▹     Not submitting assignment - yes - it's true. Several didn't. If you are struggling, you must ask me for help - don't be an ostrich
             ▹      Student mentoring. Go to a session to discuss with student mentors. It looks good on your cv if you become a student mentor

     ▹     Late submission. MCs are there to help but they can put you on the back foot so use sparingly
     ▹     I don't need to know this stuff - I'm a C++ desktop developer. Good luck with that then. A degree won't get you a job - it may get you an interview

▸   Recent feedback
     ▹     Don't focus on the web development and front-end JavaScript as core as it creates a false simplified impression of the module
     ▹     Show an assignment up-front to make it clear how the different topics build up to it
     ▹     Got too far behind for various reasons and didn't speak up to ask for help soon enough. (I will help if asked)
     ▹     As lectures and demos recorded, I convinced myself I'd watch them when needed so focused on modules with less resources. That was a mistake




                                                                                                                                                                          9
Assumptions
▸   You understand basic networking from Y1
▸   You understand basic database concepts such as normalisation, relationships - from Y1
▸   You can program - from Y1 and Y2
▸   You understand how to test code - from Y1 and Y2
▸   If this is not the case, e.g. you haven't studied the standard course from Y1 or have completely forgotten
    this stuff, then you need to tell me, and I'll cover in the tutorial or individually if necessary
▸   The HTLM and CSS we do is very basic so you should be able to pick it up in your own time - but I'm
    happy to go through these things and any other topic in the tutorial or drop-in labs
▸   You must tell me if you need help before it's too late. I' more than happy to help you get over mental
    blocks or clarify any of the concepts, but you must ask as I won't know
▸   I'll provide the lectures and tutorials / demos / Q&A online but this is only so you can join in the class to
    better see the code. If you have a valid reason not to be physically in the class, I need to be told ahead
    of time and I may allow you access from outside the class for exceptional circumstances




                                                                                                                    10
Responsibilities: Students
 Timeliness
     Arrive in time to be prepared for the lecture/workshop
     Manage your time for study effectively
 Communication
     Talk to us for support, to raise issues and to seek advice/guidance
     To monitor and use university communication mechanisms
 Participation
     Attend all scheduled sessions and activities
     To display professional conduct at all times
     Contribute to group discussions and activities
 Personal study
     Personal investigation of concepts and ideas
     Prepare for assessments and exams
     152 hours minimum outside the module
 Behaviour
     To treat all with respect: treat others as you would expect to be treated
     To recognise and address/report all inappropriate behaviours and
     attitudes
Responsibilities: Ours
 Timeliness
      Arrive in time to be prepared for delivery before the start of the lecture/workshop
      To ensure all scheduled sessions and activities run effectively and as planned
 Communication
      To provide clear communication of any changes to scheduled events and
      activities
      To clearly communicate issues and adjustments that may affect study and
      assessment
      To respond, in a timely manner, to issues raised
 Participation
      To support and challenge learning and the development of understanding
      To model and display professional conduct at all times
      To always challenge inappropriate professional behaviours and attitudes
      whenever they occur
 Study
      To professionally prepare and deliver high quality teaching and assessment
      To fairly assess and report individual application of knowledge, skills and
      understanding
 Behaviour
      To treat all with respect: treat others as you would expect to be treated
      To recognise and address/report all inappropriate behaviours and attitudes
Basic 3-tier
Client Server Architecture
Monolithic
3-tier architecture


                                                   Azure, AWS, Google, Oracle Cloud Services

                                                           IP Address
                                                         20.68.198.159




      Client

                             Internet

                                                           Application          Database




                 Front-end              Back-end



                                                                                               14
3-tier Architecture Demo
                                Domain Name System


                                                                Azure, AWS, Google, Oracle Cloud
                                                                            Services
                                                      IP Address
                                                     20.26.222.217
                                                                                              Return web
                                                                                                pages

                                                                         Web Server
                                                                                              Run apps &
                       20.26.222.217/jokes.js
                   joke.tonynicol.com/index.html
                       20.26.222.217/index.html
                       20.26.222.217/jokes.css                           App Server
                                                                                             return results
                                                                         DB Server

                                                                                               Store and
                                                                                             retrieve data
                                                       Physical or
                                                     Virtual Machine




                                                                              Demo joke site in debugger



                                                                                                              15
Monolithic architecture
▸   Many if not most organisations implement a monolithic architecture which is basically one big program
▸   The application, even if it's designed to be modular, can still end up being effectively a single program
    with hundreds of thousands or millions of lines of code
▸   The application typically uses a single database which does make data management simpler, data
    consistency and performance is good
▸   The application may run on a cluster of servers for resilience, but as the cluster or server is increased to
    get more performance, the whole application needs to be replicated and scaled yet it may only be a
    small area of the application needing a performance improvement
▸   Code changes and testing can be extremely long winded and complicated because the applications are
    so large, complex, and business processes are tightly coupled - changing one area could create
    unintended side effects in another area so the whole application must be retested functionally and for
    performance. This is referred to as Regression Testing
▸   This level of testing can take months so organisations tend to save up problems and improvements
    leaving users to find work arounds until the next release - which could be months or years
▸   However, the monolith can be very performant through in-process function execution


                                                                                                                   16
▸   In many situations, a monolith probably the most suitable solution
▸   If the application is not particularly complex or large, e.g., a basic website for a small business, the
    monolithic approach like the one just shown, is perfectly reasonable
▸   The application is small enough for a person to understand and test so code changes won't take months
▸   However, large organisations such as Tesco, Amazon shopping, Netflix, Government departments etc.,
    need to be able to adapt quickly to changes in business need or changes in government policy and they
    have huge user numbers of complex business processes
▸   Taking six months or more to make modifications to a business platform is no longer acceptable; a new
    architectural approach is needed




                                                                                                               17
Distributed Systems
▸   A distributed system appears to be a single system but made up of multiple smaller systems
▸   When the smaller and simpler systems are used in combination, they appear to be a single complex
    system, but the underlying sub-systems are quicker to create and easier to maintain and test
▸   There are various architectural patterns such a service-oriented architecture (SOA), Event Driven
    Architecture, Microservice Architecture and others
▸   Currently the most popular approach today for distributed systems is a combination of event driven
    architecture and microservices to create an event-driven microservice architecture
▸   This is not a solution to all problems; each problem needs to consider the best architectural pattern
    which may well be a monolith or some other approach. This is something for solution and enterprise
    architects to ponder - engineers will design and implement the operational solution based on the
    architecture designed by the architects




                                                                                                            19
Microservices




                20
Microservices
▸   A microservice architecture aims to provide an agile response to continuous business change
▸   Rather than attempt to create one big application to solve a business problem, the problem is broken
    into business domain problems, potentially using domain driven design (DDD). i.e., individual areas of
    the business that can be implemented independently are identified
▸   This is similar to general software decomposition where functions or classes are identified, developed
    and tested in isolation then integrated into the final application. But, in a microservice architecture, the
    granularity of decomposition is far coarser, each component is a business service and is implemented
    as a complete application
▸   Common examples include:
     ▹    Identity - login, registration etc
     ▹    User profile - manage user details such as name, email, preferences etc
     ▹    Order - manage order creation, status updates and history
     ▹    Inventory - tracks stock levels, reservations and availability
     ▹    Payment, notification, shipping and many more



                                                                                                                   21
▸   A microservice:
     ▹    is an independent application running on its own hardware with its own database if it needs one - databases aren't shared
          which prevents changes to data models from impacting other services
     ▹    is loosely coupled to other microservices and a web front-end with well-defined and documented APIs
     ▹    is typically developed, tested, deployed and maintained by a single multi-disciplinary team of 5-9 people including a product
          owner ( "two pizza team")
     ▹    is large enough to provide a business process, but small enough to enable daily or even hourly application updates
     ▹    is agile in that the product pipeline generally used is fully automated CI/CD. e.g. at DWP, developers use DDD for the
          architecture and test-driven development (TDD) for the code. A lot of effort goes into the tests such that any code changes can
          be tested automatically and if successful, the code is deployed automatically to the target system
     ▹    can be scaled independently. If one area of the business requires a performance improvement, that microservice can be
          scaled independently of the others so is more cost effective than the whole application scaling of a monolith
     ▹    is resilient. If one microservice fails, that part of the business is unavailable, but the rest of the business can carry on
     ▹    is a component of a heterogeneous architecture - as it is independent, the programming language, operating system, database
          technology, hardware etc can be whatever is the most appropriate for that business process




                                                                                                                                            22
▸   Consider Amazon shopping. This is a large complex business - too large and complex for a monolith
▸   Independent business areas are identified and microservices implemented. At a high level, let's split that into six
    services:
     ▹    Order history
     ▹    Reviews
     ▹    Product information
     ▹    Recommendations
     ▹    Inventory
     ▹    Shipping
     ▹    etc
▸   These six (there will be more than this) can be developed in isolation but once deployed, are available as a
    component making up the whole business service that is Amazon shopping
▸   To the user, it looks like one business as the front-end requests resources from various microservices to populate the
    web page




                                                                                                                             23
Example shopping site




                        24
                                     API Gateway




                      Reviews   Product      Recommend   Inventory   Shipping
         Orders App
                       App      Info App        App         App        App



Web
Server




                                                                                25
▸   Like all good ideas, there are challenges that need to be considered:
     ▹    As components of the service interact across a network, latency is introduced - unlike the monolith
     ▹    Data consistency is a challenge when data comes from various databases as opposed to one. e.g. for speed,
          you may want a local copy of some data, so managing consistency with the master can be a challenge
     ▹    Fault finding can be more difficult as each team focusses on one area it can be difficult to track the problem
          through the whole system
     ▹    Communication between microservices can become complex
     ▹    It is a myth that microservices promote reusability or they are cheaper to build and operate
     ▹    If your service does not require frequent or at least regular business change, then microservices are probably
          not appropriate as the key benefit is agility to business change
▸   So microservices are not a silver bullet that will kill the monolith, each have their advantages and
    disadvantages. So, like all design challenges, a decision as to which approach to use is based on the
    current and anticipated future business needs




                                                                                                                           26
▸   A Gartner definition of a microservice:
▸   Microservices are application components that are tightly scoped, highly cohesive,
    strongly encapsulated, loosely coupled, independently deployable and independently
    scalable. They are deployed as services behind open, standard network-accessible
    interfaces with well-defined API contracts. These components own the data they present,
    and only present data that they own
                                                              [Gartner, Inc. | G00745207, page 33]


▸   A microservice architecture is an application architecture deployed as a distributed system




                                                                                                     27
Business needs
▸   A system is there to satisfy a need which is typically a business need. i.e. we don’t build a solution then ask what can
    we use it for, we take a business need and create a solution to satisfy that need
▸   The business need may be a new business line or an improvement of current business lines to respond more
    quickly to changing customer needs and market trends
▸   The business needs will be gathered by a business analyst and maybe a product owner, then passed to an architect.
    The architects (solution, network, data, application, enterprise etc) will provide the blueprint for the solution which is
    then implemented by software engineers, network engineers, security engineers, cloud engineers etc. None of these
    people do everything but need an awareness of it all
▸   The key point is that the business drives the IT not the other way round and it is a team task and not that of an
    individual so being able to work well in a multidisciplinary team is important as is having a working knowledge of what
    the other team members are specialists in; this module attempts to give you that
▸   There needs to be a business case for funding, technical options are presented and considered against costs and
    benefits. Considerations such as data protection, system resilience, performance, security, accessibility, operational
    cost, software licenses, maintenance, telemetry, operating model are all business considerations for any system so
    requirements tend to fall into two areas: functional and non-functional
     ▹     Functional requirement: what a system must do e.g. "When I press the green button, the red light should light"
     ▹     Non-functional requirement: how well it does it. e.g., "When the green button is pressed, the red light should light within 0.5s
▸   Both will be provided and assessed in the assignments

                                                                                                                                              28
                                                                                                                 Public internet                     Virtual machine

2024/25 Assignment                                                                                               Azure private network
                                                                                                                 Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                     Application container

                                                                                                                                                     Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                                   80 / 443

                    public IP:                                                     kong
                    private IP:                                                     8445


                                    /categories                                                /moderate                                                  /categories
                                                                                               /categories                                                /submit
                                    /question/:category
                                                                                                                                                          /docs


                              4000                                               4100                          /categories                4200

                                                                          moderate                 submitted question                  submit
                           question               /categories
                              3000                                               3100                                                     3200             categories



            4002              4002                                                                  4102                                  4201                     4202
         MongoDB           MySQL                                      categories               rmq-admin                            SUBMITTED_QUESTIONS       rmq-admin
            27017             3306                  mysql                                           15672                                 5672                     15672
                                                     vol
                                                                                                                                   public IP:
                                                                                                                                   private IP:
                              4001                                                      4101
                                                        moderated questions
        mongo
         vol
                                  etl                                             MODERATED_QUESTIONS

                                                                                                                                                  Container port number
                              3001                                                      5672
                                                                                                                                                  Application port number
                    public IP:                                                public IP:
                    private IP:                                               private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                   29
Development Approach
▸   I'll build up the knowledge of the components in the architecture week-by-week
▸   This means that successive weeks build on previous weeks, so missing classes or labs is not advisable
▸   I'll discuss and provide demo code for most of the components
     ▹   You need to work through them to familiarise yourself with the operation
     ▹   You need to do the lab exercises to practice
     ▹   If you don't, your assignments will be very difficult to get working




                                                                                                            30
REST and intro to NodeJs
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you will be able to:
     1.   Explain how to structure data using JSON
     2.   Explain the structure of a URL
     3.   Explain the concept and operation of a web API
     4.   Explain the concept of RESTful APIs
     5.   Design an API URL with path and query parameters
     6.   Create and test a NodeJs / Express API




                                                                      32
                                                                                                                 Public internet                     Virtual machine

Communication (http)                                                                                             Azure private network
                                                                                                                 Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                     Application container

                                                                                                                                                     Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                                   80 / 443

                    public IP:                                                     kong
                    private IP:                                                     8445


                                    /categories                                                /moderate                                                  /categories
                                                                                               /categories                                                /submit
                                    /question/:category
                                                                                                                                                          /docs


                              4000                                               4100                          /categories                4200

                                                                          moderate                 submitted question                  submit
                           question               /categories
                              3000                                               3100                                                     3200             categories



            4002              4002                                                                  4102                                  4201                     4202
         MongoDB           MySQL                                      categories               rmq-admin                            SUBMITTED_QUESTIONS       rmq-admin
            27017             3306                  mysql                                           15672                                 5672                     15672
                                                     vol
                                                                                                                                   public IP:
                                                                                                                                   private IP:
                              4001                                                      4101
                                                        moderated questions
        mongo
         vol
                                  etl                                             MODERATED_QUESTIONS

                                                                                                                                                  Container port number
                              3001                                                      5672
                                                                                                                                                  Application port number
                    public IP:                                                public IP:
                    private IP:                                               private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                   33
                  Azure, AWS, Google, Oracle Cloud Services

                          IP Address
                        20.68.198.159




 Client




                          Application




Client




          ▸   Build locally first to emulate the server for simplicity


                                                                         34
Communication using http
▸   Monolithic (single app) and distributed (multiple sub-apps), web apps need network communication
▸   http is the most popular protocol used to get data from ‘a’ to ‘b’, machine to machine
    The data structure passed from ‘a’ to ‘b’ is typically HyperText Markup Language (HTML), text,
    eXtensible Markup Language (XML) or JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
▸   If you use JavaScript for the backend too, then json is ideal for data transfer in both directions
▸   The key thing is that these data formats are all text – i.e. characters. This avoids incompatibility between
    different programming languages, operating systems, processor types or whatever as they all support a
    basic character set, so data transferred as characters is ubiquitous (there are exceptions)




                                                                                                                   35
JSON – JavaScript Object Notation




▸   Syntax
    Data is comma delimited name:value (sometimes called key:value) pairs. E.g. “firstName”:”John”
▸   We need the double quotes for anything other than numeric values
▸   JSON equivalent of the table discussed previously:
    [
      { "ID" : 1, "firstName":"Jim", "lastName":"Smith", "age":35},
      { "ID" : 2, "firstName":"Joe", "lastName":"Soap", "age":52},
      { "ID" : 3, "firstName":"Jane", "lastName":"Doe", "age":55}
    ]


▸   Syntax is native JavaScript, almost no conversion is necessary to send or receive and interpret the data. Structure at both ends still
    needs to be known. The example will map directly to an array of objects
▸   JSON syntax diagrams are clearly explained here: json.org



                                                                                                                                             36
Web API
▸   Typically use http or https to get a web page
     ▹    http://20.26.222.217/index.html, or https://great-site.com/start.html
     ▹    An API is an application programming interface. i.e. a well-defined interface contract (e.g. function name,
          parameters, types) enabling one program to use functionality of another - e.g. calling Windows OS API
          functions

          #include <windows.h>
          int main() {
            PlaySound(TEXT("C:\\Windows\\Media\\my_sound.wav"), NULL, SND_ASYNC);
            return 0;
          }
     ▹    Windows is written in C & C++, but can be called from other languages such as Python by mapping a python
          function call and types to the Windows C call based on contract
     ▹    A web API is similar but the contract is with a remote server. The contract this time is passed in a url but the
          principle is the same




                                                                                                                             37
URL
▸   scheme://host[:port][/path][?query] where [ ] indicates optional. Default port = 80 for http, 443 for https
     ▹     http(s)://something.com/something.html
     ▹     http(s)://someAPI.com:3000/weather?city=preston&country=uk
     ▹     http(s)://someAPI.com:3000/weather/{country}/{city}?hours=24&type=json
     ▹     scheme and domain are case insensitive, but the rest should be case sensitive
     ▹     query parameter is search or filter term
     ▹     you can use 0-9, Aa-Zz, -, ., _ and ~ Other chars are for some form of control and should be escaped with %
     ▹     to escape, use % followed by the hexadecimal character code. For example, you are not allowed a space
           character in a url. If you want one, you would use %20 which is the hex char code for space
     ▹     e.g. quaint café would need to be written quaint%20caf%C3%A9
            ▹     utf8 charset is here: https://www.fileformat.info/info/charset/UTF-8/list.htm
▸   The browser will make a request to the server, the server returns a response; this is synchronous - browser has to wait
▸   Could return html for rendering in a browser or data, typically in json format
▸   Web api example (not very good RESTful url):
     ▹     http://universities.hipolabs.com/search?country=united%20kingdom
     ▹     http://universities.hipolabs.com/search?country=united%20kingdom&name=university%20of%20central%20lancashire


                                                                                                                              38
So how does a web API work?
▸   A server at IP address, e.g., 20.123.80.240 listens for a request on a specific port number
▸   A url is used to form the contract with the api
▸   Server parses the request … e.g. http://x.com:3000/books/{type}/{author}?count=20
▸   Node.JS is a JavaScript runtime environment
▸   To deal with restful APIs, we need a framework to avoid us having to write all this parsing and routing
    code, so we can install express.js. This has been the de facto framework for Node for many years; other
    frameworks are available …
▸   Frameworks and libraries avoid you reinventing the wheel. You may have your favourite, or your
    organisation may stick to one for consistency. It really doesn’t matter




                                                                                                              39
▸   REST is currently the most popular approach to web API calls so we will focus on that (legacy may use SOAP)
▸   REST (REpresentational State Transfer) was introduced in 2000 by Roy Fielding in his PhD.
    https://www.ics.uci.edu/~fielding/pubs/dissertation/fielding_dissertation_2up.pdf
▸   HTTP has 9 methods. These are not methods in the function() sense, but just tokens the client can sent to indicate a
    required action so are sometimes called http verbs
▸   Of the 9 http methods, we typically use five: GET to get data, POST to submit data – e.g. create a new row in a
    relational database, PUT to update all columns in a row, PATCH to update some of the columns, and DELETE to
    delete a whole row - this enables us to implement all CRUD actions on a database
▸   These methods don’t do anything other than inform the server of what action the client is requesting
▸   An http request contains headers and sometimes a body. The body carries the “payload” i.e. data being sent or
    returned. The header is more about control or additional information other than the data we are sending or receiving
▸   We don’t need to worry about many of the headers but just to ensure you know what I’m talking about when I say
    “http header” a few examples are:
     ▹    cookies: small text files that are used to remember state and other things
     ▹    content-type: e.g. application/json if that’s the format of the payload to inform the client
     ▹    content-length: number of bytes in the body
     ▹    user-agent: which web browser you are using
     ▹    last-modified: date the file was modified. If server has same, it returns 304 and no data. i.e. no change so use cached version



                                                                                                                                            40
Terminology
▸   URL: full address used to access a resource. e.g., http://api.example.com:3000/users/123?count=10
▸   Origin: the scheme, domain and port. e.g., http://api.example.com:3000
▸   Path: the part of the URL that comes after the domain. e.g., /users/123 123 is a path parameter
▸   Query String: acts as a filter or limiter of returned data. e.g., ?count=10
▸   Endpoint: a specific URL (or path) that represents a resource or action in an API. Usually with method
     ▹    e.g. GET /users/123 or DELETE /users/123 are different endpoints
▸   Route: In backend frameworks (like Express.js, Spring boot, Flask), a route is a server-side mapping
    between a URL pattern and a function or controller




                                                                                                             41
Architecture
             Client                                            App Server                                              Database Server


            Browser             http request
        html, JavaScript,
             css etc

                                                              Express   App logic


                                                                                    Database Drivers
                                                                                                       data request




                                                Node server
                                                                                                                          MongoDB
         Desktop App            http response                                                                              mySQL
                                                                                                                            etc.

                                                                                                       data response

          Mobile App                                          Node Runtime




▸   So we need Node.js to run the JavaScript
▸   We need Express.js to simplify creating the server and to process requests and return responses
▸   We need to write some logic – i.e. our app and data access and processing
▸   We need an appropriate database driver / SDK to enable our code to access the database
▸   We will focus on the areas in red first - the app server to create web APIs
                                                                                                                                         42
Node.JS and NPM intro
▸   Node is just a runtime environment so doesn’t have a graphical UI as it is more of a machine to machine
    type environment. We can see results in the console window of what is returned to the browser
▸   console.log() is the method to output to the terminal
▸   Rather than bloating the app with loads of libraries you may not use, you can import what you need
▸   For example, if we want functionality to parse file paths, we can use the node built-in module ‘path’
     ▹    const path = require(‘path’);
▸   If you require functionality that isn’t included with node, you can install packages created by others who
    share their code via the node package manager (npm)
▸   npm documentation is at https://docs.npmjs.com/
▸   Search packages at https://www.npmjs.com/




                                                                                                                 43
Create App Server and API
▸   When creating a new project that depends on external packages, those dependencies are recorded in a
    package.json file. You can create that manually but it’s easier to get npm to set it up before installing any
     ▹    Enter npm init then answer the questions. You can stick to the defaults – just press enter. You can edit later -
          or use npm init -y to answer yes to everything
     ▹    This way, when storing your code in say git hub, or passing it to someone else, you don’t need to save all the
          packages as they are recorded in the package.json file for npm to install later
▸   You will notice the packages.json and node_modules appear in the file explorer. There can be quite a lot
    of packages as the packages may themselves include packages
▸   If you have just the source files, say clone from git, type npm install on its own and npm will read
    package.json and install all the dependencies listed in that file




                                                                                            demos/api/minimalAPI
                                                                                            demos/API/firstAPI/app.js
                                                                                            demos/API/simpleAPI/app.js
                                                                                                                             44
Server response status codes
   ▹   When returning a response, we need to send an appropriate server response code. By default it is 200
   ▹   e.g. res.sendStatus(404), res.status(201).json(object)


   ▹   Status code. This is really important as it indicates the level of success and redirection. There are 5 types:
   ▹   full detail is here: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status
        ▹     1xx: informational. e.g. 100 indicates a request has been received and is being processed. For
              example, if you want to check the server will accept your request and headers, don’t send the body yet
              but look for a 100 to mean – good to carry on – i.e. send me your body
        ▹     2xx: success. The most popular. 200 - Request succeeded. 201 – request success and new resource
              created …
        ▹     3xx: redirection. 300 - there is more than one possible response – you need to choose one. 301 – url
              changed permanently. Or 302, URL temporarily moved … New url is returned in the location
        ▹     4xx: error. The next most popular. 400 – server cannot or will not process the request. 401 –
              unauthenticated. 404 – resource not found on the server. 429 – too many requests. There are quite a
              few of these
        ▹     5xx: server error: 500 – internal server error. 501 – request not implemented. 503 – service
              unavailable …

                                                                                                                        45
JavaScript functions
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you should be able to:
     1.   Write named functions, anonymous functions and arrow functions
     2.   Write a function that takes another function as a callback parameter
     3.   Write an anonymous function as a function argument
     4.   Call an asynchronous API functions such as setTimeout and fetch
     5.   Explain the basic operation of code that uses promises
     6.   Create and test a simple node express API application




                                                                                 47
▸   There are a confusingly large number of ways to define / declare a function in JavaScript. You may come across any
    or all of them, so I’ll cover them briefly here
▸   A named function is effectively “hoisted” to the top of the file by the parser if not in a block, so can be called before its
    declaration:
    getData()
    function getData(){ … }


▸   A function expression like the following creates an anonymous function and effectively assigns its address to the
    variable getData. getData() can call the function. As getData is available from the point of declaration.
    getData()
    const getData = function() { … }


▸   The assigned function has the scope in which it’s defined so you have more control over it clashing with other
    similarly named functions (function names have to be unique in the same scope). e.g. the example will throw an error
    as the function is being called outside the scope in which it was declared because let and const have block scope
▸   Typically these days, function expressions are used to provide better scope control unless a named function is
    needed or more appropriate, but for what we need, there’s no important difference so use what you want



                                                                                             demos/more functions/functions.js
                                                                                                                                    48
Arrow functions
▸   These are essentially the same as assigned anonymous functions but the syntax is supposed to be
    more succinct, and some argue easier to read; I’m not one of them. However, they are very popular

    Syntax is: fn = (param list) => {
      …
      return …
    }


▸   If there is only a single statement to execute, return is implied
▸   If there is only one parameter, parentheses are optional
▸   "this" is not part of the function but inherited from the calling scope




                                                                              demos/more functions/arrowFunctions.js




                                                                                                                       49
Callback function
▸   Callback functions are used a lot in JavaScript when dealing with asynchronous execution (later)
▸   A callback function is a function passed as an argument to another function to be called sometime later
▸   The first example shows different functions passed as callbacks, declared in different ways

                                                                                   demos/more functions/callback1.js


▸   The second example shows a callback passed to an asynchronous API function declared in different ways
▸   Asynchronisity will be covered in detail later
                                                                                   demos/more functions/callback2.js




▸   We typically use arrow functions in API routes so compare the two demos:       demos/API/firstAPI/app.js
                                                                                   demos/API/firstAPI2/app.js




                                                                                                                       50
Asynchronicity in JavaScript
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you will be able to:
     1.   Explain the difference between synchronous and asynchronous operations
     2.   Explain how JavaScript handles asynchronous operations
     3.   Explain the purpose and operation of JavaScript callbacks and promises
     4.   Use promises in your code for asynchronous operations
     5.   Explain the concept of middleware and use it in your solutions
     6.   Explain and use same origin requests
     7.   Create a front-end that displays API data retrieved from your application and web server




                                                                                                     52
Sync and Async
▸   Synchronous operations are those which take place sequentially. For example, you get to the head of the queue at a
    sandwich bar at a train station. You place your order for a toastie with the assistant. They go off and do their thing
    and make the sandwich – maybe chatting to someone or staring into space whilst the sandwich is toasting.
    Eventually they come back to you and ask “Is there anything else?” You order a coffee. They go off and do their thing
    – maybe stare into space whilst the milk boils then returns with your coffees. “Anything else?” By now you are getting
    disapproving looks from others in the queue so say no. You are asked for payment. You pay cash so they go off to
    the till and cash the money but they don’t have change so have to go into the office to get some change. They
    eventually complete the payment and you can be on your way whilst half of the queue have given up and gone for
    their train. Synchronous operations are simple but block execution whilst waiting
▸   Ok, you could employ 3 people with 3 tills and 3 toasters etc. This is clearly more efficient but also more expensive.
    This is parallel processing and now has 3 people (CPUs) staring into space at various times.
▸   A different approach could be to employ an asynchronous process. An attendant takes your order but whilst the
    sandwich is in the toaster, they take your next order – maybe that’s for coffee, but if not they can take an order from
    the next person. So whilst the toaster is still toasting and the milk is still boiling, they can take another order. At some
    point, the milk is boiling – maybe the toaster is still toasting. The assistant can stop taking orders and finish the
    coffee – which started after the toaster so is out of order. During finishing the coffee, the toaster finishes so once the
    coffee order is complete, they can go to the toaster and finish the toastie order. The key point here is that a long
    process can be kicked-off but this doesn’t block the assistant. They can do other things whilst waiting. This is more
    efficient but more complex as the orders may be completed out of order and the person needs to remember which
    order is for whom. Java uses multithreading for parallelism, JavaScript is single threaded so relies on asynchronous
    function calls to avoid blocking the single application thread


                                                                                                                                   53
Calling an API from the frontend
▸   Response from the app server may be slow so waiting for a response will block the single thread
     ▹    The UI becomes unresponsive whilst waiting - this is synchronous
▸   A JavaScript function, fetch, will make the API call but asynchronously
     ▹    The call is made but we don't wait for the response
▸   The UI remains responsive whilst fetch is waiting for a response in the background
     ▹    effectively running in a separate thread (discussed later)
▸   We also need to consider not blocking the server thread if it needs to do something lengthy
     ▹    e.g. search for data in a database. Make this server call asynchronous too
▸   When the response is received from the app server, it is somehow dealt with in the main thread
▸   A couple of quick examples to illustrate this so you can do your practical exercise
▸   Detail of how it all works follows


                                                                                       demos/API/fetchBasic1
                                                                                       demos/API/fetchDemo1



                                                                                                               54
                                        Call Stack                          APIs

           CheckboxClick
           callbackDemo
            ButtonClick
                                                               Fetch
                                                               AudioData
                                                               console
                                                               crypto
                                                               + hundreds more




Message
Handler
                                                       Event queue (FIFO)




          CheckboxClick   ButtonClick   callbackDemo


                                                                                   55
Asynchronous approaches
▸   We've seen how callback functions like setTimeout work in JavaScript to make an async call
▸   But, multiple callbacks within callbacks can get quite complex, especially in error conditions, so the
    concept of a promise, was added to the language. Callbacks are still used
▸   A further addition to the language is async and await. These further simplify the coding of
    asynchronous operations using promises
▸   Callback, promise and async / await are a little tricky to get your head around at first and are areas that
    interviewers often ask about to differentiate basic JavaScript programmers from those with an
    understanding of asynchronous operations handled by these JavaScript language features
▸   To reiterate: a callback is a function which is passed to another function as an argument. The function
    "registers" the callback. i.e. it notes the function's execution address. If the function is asynchronous,
    when the main function, e.g. fetch or setTimeout, is ready, e.g., reading data from a file or database or
    whatever it is that's likely to take time, it will pass the registered callback function to the event queue to
    be executed when the thread is available. Using a promise is just a syntactically better way of achieving
    the same result
▸   If the callback is no asynchronous, when the parent function is ready, it will execute the callback
    synchronously


                                                                                                                     56
Promises
▸   A promise is called that because it is a promise, agreed now, but to do something later. A promise is an
    object with two key properties: state and result. It has three states: pending, fulfilled or rejected. Whilst it
    waits for an asynchronous event to complete, it has a status of “pending”. This is just a newer way of
    implementing asynchronous operations instead of callbacks
▸   We can create promise-based code and we use promise-based code from others




                                                                                                                       57
▸   Written using full functions to illustrate sequence
▸   Typically use arrow functions
▸   Typically create promise in a function

                                                          demos/async/promise1.js

                                                          demos/async/promise1b.js
                                                                                     58
Async /Await
▸   Promises were introduced to simplify callbacks but they are still not particularly intuitive as code is
    executed out of sequence so you need to think differently when dealing with asynchronous processing.
    Async / await has been introduced to simplify things even more by enabling you to make the code look
    more like synchronous code
▸   A promise needs to be set into a state from pending to have its .then() or .catch() function callback
    called to handle the response to the asynchronous event. Async / await enables some, arguably better
    readability by enabling the result of the async function to be dealt with in what looks like a more
    synchronous manner. Async / await uses promises but is abstracted further from the detail
▸   Async/await is an option, not a replacement – there are situations where you may prefer to use one over
    the other, or both - it’s up to you
▸   Many library functions now support promises - fetch is one of them
▸   Note: to be able to await a response, await must be within an async function




                                                                                                              59
                                                                                     Immediate execution of the callback

                                                                                         Reg timer callback - not executed




                                                  Needs to be async to use await


                                                                                     Pending


                                                                                                     Resolved

                                                                                   Rejected

▸   Looking at the same example
▸   Still uses a promise but async await syntax                                      Do this regardless




                                                                                    demos/async/asyncAwait1b.js              60
▸   Note: if you’re a detail person, there is also a microtask queue:


▸   JavaScript uses an event loop to manage asynchronous operations. It has two main queues:
     ▹    Macrotask queue (task queue or event queue on the diagram)
     ▹    Includes: setTimeout(), setInterval(), fetch(), I/O, UI events
     ▹    Scheduled to run after the current call stack is empty and after all microtasks have been processed


     ▹    Microtask queue:
     ▹    Includes: Promise callbacks (.then, catch, finally) and a few others.
     ▹    These are processed immediately after the call stack clears, before any macrotasks




                                                                                                                61
Express and Middleware
                                                                                     Middleware Stack
                           req obj assigned parsed   req, res
                           url,headers, method                      Path                 Method   Reference


             Express
                           and more (not body)                      '/'                  null     .json           .json(req,res,next())
                                                                    '/'                  GET      rootPath

                                                           search
                                                                    '/results'           GET      allResults
B
                                                                    '/results'           POST     addStudents
r                                Yes
o                                                                   '/results/name'      GET      resultsByName   resultsByName(req,res)
w   ...:3000/results/jim                                            '/results/:id'       GET      resultsById
s                                  3000
e
r



    http response




                                                                                                                   /demos/API/simpleAPI




                                                                                                                                           63
Express Middleware
▸   Middleware in this context is basically functionality that you have written or library packages that can be added to a
    call list (middleware stack) and have access to req and res
▸   Middleware is added to the middleware stack, typically using app.use() to add a function to the middleware stack
▸   Middleware is called in the order it appears on the stack. If a middleware completes, e.g., res.send() none of the
    others are called. However, middleware functions, if they can't complete the job, or they do something en-route to an
    endpoint, maybe add some stuff to the req or response object they need to call next() to pass control to the next
    middleware in the list etc.
▸   We won't get involved in anything complicated but will add some middleware that gets called before our route for pre-
    processing then generally pass control to the route's callback function to complete with a res.send() or similar
▸   The middleware stack has middleware added to it in the order it appears in the source file so be wary of that




                                                                                                                             64
                                                                                   Middleware Stack
                               req obj assigned parsed   req, res
                               url,headers, method                     Path            Method   Reference


             Express
                               and more (not body)                     '/'             null     checkPassword   checkPasword(req,res,next())
                                                                       '/'             null     logger
                                                                       '/'             null     putOnly
B
                                                              search
                                                                       '/'             null     anonymous
r                                      Yes
o                                                                      '/'             GET      anonym ref
w   ...:3000/jim                                                       '/login'        GET      anonym ref
s                                       3000
                                                                       '/name/:name'   PUT      logParam        logParam(req,res,next())
e
                                                                                                anonym ref
r
                                                                       *               POST     anonym ref
                                                                       *               null     Anonym ref
                       http response



                                                                                                                 /demos/API/middleware




                                                                                                                                               65
▸   The middleware functions appear on the stack in the order they are defined
▸   Each is checked in order and if they don't terminate, call next to keep the search going
▸   The putOnly middleware isn't special, it is called for all methods but the called function only responds if
    the method it PUT
▸   app.use('/login', checkPassword) example, adds checkPassword to the /login route for ALL methods
▸   The /name/:name is different. As the middleware only applies to it explicitly, i.e. PUT /name/:name, it is
    added into the stack array element object and called before the path and on completion calls the route
    function by calling next(). There could be any number of these middleware functions passed as
    parameters in the path and they will be stacked in order from left to right


▸   The middleware can modify the content of the request and response objects that it passes on




                                                                                                                  66
Adding a database to the stack
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you will be able to:
     1.   Explain the ETL process
     2.   Explain cardinality in an entity relationship diagram
     3.   Explain and create table relationships using primary and foreign keys
     4.   Explain and create referential integrity rules
     5.   Interpret and write basic SQL
     6.   Explain SQL injection and how you can prevent it
     7.   Explain and use the different scopes of environment variables
     8.   Explain the benefits of using environment variables in maintainability and application configuration
     9.   Explain the benefits of database connection pooling in enterprise systems
     10. Explain and implement database connection pooling which manages multiple concurrent connections
     11. Create an application which adheres to the principle of separation of concerns




                                                                                                                 68
                                                                                                                 Public internet                     Virtual machine

Adding a Database                                                                                                Azure private network
                                                                                                                 Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                     Application container

                                                                                                                                                     Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                                   80 / 443

                    public IP:                                                     kong
                    private IP:                                                     8445


                                    /categories                                                /moderate                                                  /categories
                                                                                               /categories                                                /submit
                                    /question/:category
                                                                                                                                                          /docs


                              4000                                               4100                          /categories                4200

                                                                          moderate                 submitted question                  submit
                           question               /categories
                              3000                                               3100                                                     3200             categories



            4002              4002                                                                  4102                                  4201                     4202
         MongoDB           MySQL                                      categories               rmq-admin                            SUBMITTED_QUESTIONS       rmq-admin
            27017             3306                  mysql                                           15672                                 5672                     15672
                                                     vol
                                                                                                                                   public IP:
                                                                                                                                   private IP:
                              4001                                                      4101
                                                        moderated questions
        mongo
         vol
                                  etl                                             MODERATED_QUESTIONS

                                                                                                                                                  Container port number
                              3001                                                      5672
                                                                                                                                                  Application port number
                    public IP:                                                public IP:
                    private IP:                                               private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                   69
Architecture
            Client                                            App Server                                              Database Server


           Browser         http request
       html, JavaScript,
            css etc

                                                             Express   App logic


                                           Node web server                         Database Drivers
                                                                                                      data request

                                                                                                                         MongoDB
        Desktop App        http response                                                                                  mySQL
                                                                                                                           etc.

                                                                                                      data response

         Mobile App                                          Node Runtime




▸   So we need Node.js to run any back-end code in JavaScript and provide the static web server
▸   We need Express.js to simplify creating the server and to process requests and return responses
▸   We need to write some logic – i.e. our app, data access and processing
▸   We need an appropriate database driver / SDK to enable our code to access the database
▸   We need a database management system / database server
                                                                                                                                        70
▸   It’s time to add a database to complete the 3-tier architectural stack
▸   There are various database types, mainly relational and various no SQL
▸   We will look at relational first using MySQL server, now owned by Oracle
     ▹    You should install mySQL server and Workbench from https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/8.0.html
▸   This is not a database course, you did enough in the first year to cover this module, so I’ll stick to basics
▸   MySQL is a very popular relational database system, RDBMS, but since Oracle took it over, it has been
    forked and some prefer to use the fork, MariaDB. They are basically the same, but we will use MySQL
▸   A relational database uses multiple tables which are related in some way. A process of data
    normalisation is used to remove repetition from the data and determine relationships
     ▹    If you can't remember how to normalise from the first year, just look it up as revision
     ▹    We will not create complex data models or require in-depth normalisation
▸   We'll do this in two parts
     ▹    Quick and dirty to get the database working and integrated using a single simple table
     ▹    A more engineered approach                                             demos/data/basic/app.js (create db and table manually)
                                                                                 demos/data/mysql2_basic_promise/app.js


                                                                                                                                          71
Data Engineering
▸   Software Engineers work closely with Data Engineers so need a good grasp of data operations
▸   To summarise a software developer should be able to analyse, standardise, Extract & clean, Transform,
    and Load (ETL) data into data structures they or a data engineer have modelled to enable others to use
    and analyse - i.e. create related normalised tables and write the data to the tables if using RDBMS
▸   Various tools are used in this process, or you may write code for continuous ETL into a database
▸   e.g., one system creates a log of all the changes made to its database each day. In the evening, a batch
    process job may be run to transfer that data to an analytical system to be added to data from other
    systems for analysis. That data may be transferred as comma separated (or other) values
▸   A data engineer / software developer will need to clean the data
     ▹    scan for missing column values, blank records, ensure compliance to data standards etc
▸   They will extract the data from the file in in whatever format it is in
▸   They will transform the data - e.g. set all names to upper or lower case, make sure date formats are
    correct etc, align to organisational data standards, maybe separate data based on table destination
▸   Then load the data into a table or a set of related tables
▸   The ETL process is a very popular process in data processing systems

                                                                                                               72
▸   There are duplicates
▸   If you wanted to find out Joan Jet's grade in Electronics, how would you do it?
▸   Searching will return two results - there could be two Joan Jets - there is no unique ID
▸   If it's the same person and she had her grade changed on appeal, if not all records updated then data is inconsistent
▸   There are two columns called name
▸   We need some uniqueness and to avoid checking many columns, so break the table up into tables

                                                                                                                            73
▸   A student can be on more than one course, but for simplicity, a tutor can only teach one course, but a course can
    have more than one tutor. I just made this up, but this information would be elicited from the business by a business
    analyst working in conjunction with an engineer
▸   Split into entities of related information using data normalisation, e.g. student, course and tutor. Each is given a
    unique ID to search on, this is the primary key. There are no duplicates
▸   The tutor table enables us to find the course they teach using the course primary key, e.g. staff number
▸   Grade is a many-to-many relationship as many students can be on a course and a course can have many students
    but a grade is unique to one student on one course. A single primary key on grade would give us nothing useful but a
    primary key made of two other primary keys to form a composite primary key is useful as it relates the grade to the
    student and the course. We deal with this scenario with a linking or joining table with both key values. e.g. What
    grade did Kevin Bacon get for Physics?
▸   There's repetition in grade, student and course - so marital-status, qualification and grade could have their own tables
    and be replaced by foreign keys. That would require more joins which may impact performance so it’s a trade-off
▸   The 4 tables, functionally dependent on a key that will work are:
          student                             course                         tutor                            grade




                                                                                                                               74
Data modelling
▸   You would likely be designing a new product and don't yet have any data. You work with the business analysts to
    determine what data you need.
▸   The design would be used by data engineers and software engineers to create the solution
▸   Modelling it is typically done using an entity relationship diagram ERD in a modelling tool such as Erwin
▸   MySql workbench has a basic modelling tool built-in so I used that to create the following entity relationship diagram
    (ERD) diagram but the tables we will use are easily normalised and modelled without this but it's handy for
    documentation
▸   Workbench can take an existing database and create an ERD from it
▸   Workbench enables you to draw the diagram and create all the SQL to create the tables from the diagram
▸   There are more professional tools for enterprise designs with many more features




                                                                                                                             75
▸   The notation in this example is referred to as "crow's foot" notation




       Left to right: each        Right to left: a                  Right to left: a                  Right to left: a
       student can have           grade can be                      course can have 0                 tutor can teach on
       zero or more               associated to 1                   or more students.                 only one course
       grades                     student.                                                            (in this example)
                                                                    Left to right: A
                                  Left to right: A                  course can have
                                  grade can be                      only 1 tutor
                                  associated to only
                                  one course           Decent tools show the relationship between primary
                                                       and foreign key so I've added the blue arrows
                                                       We may want a direct relationship between student
                                                       and tutor. Is there a relationship between student
                                                       and tutor beyond the course? Personal tutor? This is
                                                       all part of requirements gathering                 demos\data\students_db
                                                                                                         reverse: sql_store DB
                                                                                                                                   76
▸   Relational databases are accessed and operated using the Structured Query Language (SQL)
▸   With SQL we can create a database, tables, add data, modify data, request data etc
▸   You can use the workbench GUI but it still shows you the SQL you could have used


▸   We will only be using a subset of SQL so I'm not going to go through it all - there are many references
     ▹ SELECT * FROM student_db.course; To avoid having to specify the database every time double click
          schema or specify it: use student_db;
     ▹    SELECT name, qualification FROM course;
     ▹    INSERT INTO student (first_name, last_name, marital_status)
          VALUES ('Tony', 'Nicol', 'Married');
     ▹    DELETE FROM student WHERE id=7;


     ▹    If the data you need is in more than one table, you need to join them to create a resultant set. e.g., we want to
          list all tutors and the courses they teach. It is customary to put SQL keywords in capitals but not required:
          SELECT tutor.title, tutor.name, course.name
          FROM tutor
          JOIN course on course.id = tutor.course_id;

                                                                                                       Demo some queries



                                                                                                                              77
▸   Join all tables to find what courses and grades Joan Jet is on and the tutor names
▸   This will create multiple rows if there are multiple tutors. If you don't want that you can use concat




                                                                                                             78
Referential Integrity




 ▸   Deleting Electronics would leave rows 1 and 7 orphaned
 ▸   Deleting electronics then re-adding would require all course id of value 6 to be changed to 7
 ▸   Imagine a database with millions of people, with many relationships - I've seen systems with over 100
     tables joined. Finding the orphans and fixing them can be very tricky.
 ▸   Alternatively, if you really do want to delete Electronics as you will no longer deliver it as a course, you
     need to remove all the child records too or maybe set them to null
 ▸   We can deal with these scenarios by setting referential integrity rules
                                                                                                                    79
▸   To provide referential integrity between course and tutor, you can add a constraint onto the keys. On delete, you can
    cascade, restrict, set to null or do nothing.
▸   Cascade means it will automatically delete all the children of a deleted parent. E.g., deleting a row in the course table
    would delete all tutor entries for that course so leaves no orphans
▸   Restrict means, if there are records in the child table with reference to the parent you are trying to delete, don’t allow
    the delete and throw an error
▸   There are the same options associated with update. If you update a parent record, e.g., change the course primary
    key from 6 to 7 for some reason, the cascade constraint will automatically update all child records with key value 6 to
    7. If it is set to restricted, then trying to update a parent record will raise an error
▸   Alter the tutor (child) table | foreign keys | select key. Referenced column is id. By default, these are restricted




                                                                                                                                 80
Separation of Concerns
SQL Injection
▸   So the database has various protections but what about our code?
▸   SQL injection is where typically an application requires data from a user to say, look something up
▸   For example, an API where we want to get details on someone with a last name of martin
     ▹ localhost:3000/name/martin The name would typically be read in the web UI
          /demos/data/mysql2_basic_promise_sql_injection

     ▹    But what if we passed localhost:3000/name/`' OR 1=1;       -- `
▸   If we can determine column names we can modify content - e.g. give ourselves a 1st class degree
      ▹ localhost:3000/name/`'; INSERT INTO names (first_name,last_name,age) VALUES ('tony','nicol',25);--`


▸   How do we protect against this?
     ▹ Database configuration - multipleStatements: false (default in mySQL2)
     ▹    Parameterised queries
     ▹    Thorough code checking of what's passes in




                                                                                                          82
Parameterised queries
▸   The previous example combines code and data; we need to separate these
▸   We need to make sure user input is treated only as data and is not executable SQL
▸   Data passed in for query is replaced with a placeholder, '?' and the data is added to an array
▸   The query with ? placeholders is passed as arg1 and data array as arg1 - the function safely combines
▸   Say we pass in 3 params in the path or in a POST body
     ▹ localhost:3000/student/billy/wibble/25
     ▹    const params = [req.params.fName, req.params.lName, req.params.age]
     ▹    const sql = "SELECT * FROM names WHERE first_name=? AND last_name=? AND age =?"
     ▹    const [result] = await connection.execute(sql, params)


▸   Note: .query works ok but .execute is preferred for security and query performance with ? params


                                                                    /demos/data/mysql2_basic_promise_sql_injectio
                                                                    n


                                                                                                                    83
Separation of concerns
▸   Means designing a solution such that different parts of the code or architecture handle distinct
    responsibilities, without overlapping or interfering with each other
     ▹    Each microservice/module/class/function has a single, well-defined purpose
     ▹    Changes in one concern don’t impact the others
     ▹    Code is more maintainable - easier to test and extend




                                                                                 routes.js
                        App.js                              App.js



                         Current Solution
                          Tightly coupled                                         mysql.js


                                                                     Modular Solution
                                                                     Loosely coupled




                                                                                                       84
Environment variables
▸   Before we get into modular database-application design, a quick sidetrack on environment variables
▸   Environment variables are variables held by the operating system so can be made accessible to applications. For
    example, the system scope env vars such as PATH in Windows, holds the paths to applications so you can access
    applications from any directory
▸   We can set env vars that are scoped to a process - i.e. a running app. These are not visible to other processes
▸   Our process (e.g. node app) can access our process scoped env vars and the inherited shell and system env vars
▸   We use environment variables to keep some of the sensitive or common settings out of our source files
▸   We can also use them to configure our application for different circumstances and environments at runtime
▸   They act like parameters to an app for flexibility - not sent to the app but available for the app to read
     ▹     e.g. start server on a different port without changing code
▸   We can set env vars manually (don't leave space either side of =
     ▹     Windows power shell: $env:PORT=4000 View with $env:PORT
     ▹     Windows command shell: set PORT=4000 view with set PORT
     ▹     Linux: export PORT=4000 View with echo $PORT
     ▹     const port = process.env.PORT will read PORT from the environment; use it to start server on 4000

                                                                                                                      85
Basic Env Var Architecture
                             dotenv
                  App 1                                         App 'n'                              App 'm'




RAM
                     Process Env                              Process Env                           Process Env

                  e.g.                                      e.g.                                 e.g.
       .env       password                                  password                             password
                  IP address                                IP address                           IP address
                  connection str                            connection str                       connection str
                  Port number                               Port number                          Port number




                                         Shell Env                                                   Shell Env
RAM           User defined vars using e.g., $env:PORT=4000, export PORT=5000             User defined vars using e.g.,
                                                                                         $env:PORT=2000, export PORT=3000




                                                              System Env
DISK
                                                 e.g., PATH, COMPUTERNAME, USERPROFILE

                                                                                                                            86
▸   Rather than set the environment variables manually, we can use an npm package dotenv
▸   Write your environment variables in a file - default is .env. Include the npm package ‘dotenv’. When the dotenv config
    function is called, it will read the variables from the file and write them into the process environment
     require('dotenv').config()
▸   Create a file called .env in the root dir of your project.
▸   If you want to put the file somewhere else or you are having trouble opening it, use the following to make it explicit:
     require('dotenv').config({ path: path.resolve(__dirname, '.env') })
▸   Using this approach you can call the file something else if you want to.
     ▹     Note: path needs to be "required" but doesn't need npm as it is already included in modern versions of node
▸   To see all your env vars:
     ▹     Windows powershell: Get-ChildItem Env: or Get-ChildItem Env: | Sort-Object Name to sort them on name
     ▹     Windows command shell: set
     ▹     Linux: env or env | sort
▸   Using .env to hold passwords is a little more secure than adding them in the code. If you are going to push to github,
    don't commit your .env file. To prevent that, add .env to a .gitignore file (add ./node_modules too)
▸   If you already have an env var declared in your env, dotenv won't overwrite it - i.e. a shell var trumps a .env var
                                                                                                                /demos/data/dotenv
                                                                                                                                     87
Database connections
▸   When a query from the app is made on the database, typically in the simplest non-busy scenario
     ▹    a connection object is created
     ▹    the app authenticates using the connection string
     ▹    the query is completed
     ▹    the app closes the connection
     ▹    improves security by minimising session hijacking or unauthorised reuse in very secure environments - limited
          time for hacker
     ▹    may use per-user credentials for isolation and auditing


▸   Alternatively, a connection object can be created and kept open until the application closes
     ▹    only take the object creation and authentication hit once so improves performance
     ▹    slightly less secure but fine for all but the most sensitive data scenarios
     ▹    cannot run concurrent queries needed in a multi-user environment - e.g. concurrent http requests
     ▹    or even multiple queries from the same user to say restore a user profile when they login to the web app



                                                                                                                          88
Database Connection Pooling
▸   Connection pooling is a technique used to manage and reuse database connections efficiently
     ▹    Especially in high-performance or multi-user applications
     ▹    Avoids the time overhead of opening and closing a new connection for every database request
     ▹    Creates a pool of reusable connections when the application starts and authenticates them all
     ▹    Hands out an available connection from the pool when a query is made & returns it on query completion
     ▹    Keeps connections alive and ready for reuse, reducing overhead of creating and authenticating
     ▹    Supports concurrent users and concurrent queries from the same user
     ▹    Can prevent connection leaks by using auto lifecycle management - pool.query() gets, uses then releases connection
▸   Can set limits. e.g., for mySQL2
     ▹    connectionLimit: limit concurrent connections to prevent resource exhaustion such as CPU, RAM, I/O. Default=10
     ▹    waitForConnections: should pool exhaustion cause connection requests to be queued. Default=true
     ▹    queueLimit: if queuing, how big do we allow the queue to grow? Default=0 which means unlimited




                                                                                           /demos/data/mysql2_promise_modular

                                                                                                                                89
Data engineering use-case
▸   I have a pdf document with trivia questions and answers. It's formatted with headers, footers, page numbers etc. I want
    to extract the data, transform it into a format I need to be able to load it into a database which I have modelled
▸   Step1: I exported into a word document so I could edit it
▸   Step2: I needed to clean the data - replace smart quotes, en & em dashes, other non standard characters into standard
    characters. Remove headers, footers, section breaks etc. This is automated using word's search and replace feature
▸   Step3: Data were exported into delimited text: tab to separates a question from an answer; newline to separate each
    question-and-answer pair. Database special characters need to be dealt with too - e.g., " and ' are used in databases to
    separate data but the date may contain " or '. So, all " need to be converted to either "" or \" and ' to '' or \'. There are
    others. You could use backtick to avoid the change
▸   Step 4: Extract. Data is loaded from storage, e.g. a text file which is typically coma separated values (csv) or
    delineated in other ways (tab and eol in my case), maybe the format is json. Whatever, it needs to be extracted to some
    form of staging area so the original is not modified
▸   Step 5: Transform. Any more formatting and cleaning to get the data into a form that maps to our data table design
▸   Step 6: Load. Data is loaded into one or more tables in a database
▸   In this simple example, the database has only one table with three columns: id, question and answer
▸   The ETL is written in modular JavaScript. It loads data from a file, separates question and answer, creates a table then
    loads all the data from the file into the table.
▸   A use case could be: datafile lands. app.js triggered to do etl. Data file archived. Data available for API request


                                                                                                                                    90
▸   The modular structure enables the database layer to be changed without changing the app


                                               mongo-database-fns.js

                                                   mongo-based
                                                    functions


              etl.js                                                            extractData.js


            Database                                                              common
         functionality is                                                       data extract
            imported                                                            functionality

                                               mysql-database-fns.js

                                                   mysql-based
                                                    functions




                                                                                       /demos/data/etl/app.js
                                                                                                                91
Containerisation
Learning objectives
▸   On completion of this section you will be able to:
▸   explain the high level architecture of a container
▸   explain the concept, benefits and limitations of containers
▸   explain the container image creation process using a Docker file
▸   create a docker image of your application
▸   create, run and test a local container
▸   create and run a local container that interacts with a local instance of MySql server
▸   use common docker commands
▸   use the Docker desktop application
▸   use Docker Compose to deploy multiple containers




                                                                                            93
                                                                                                                  Public internet                     Virtual machine

Containerisation                                                                                                  Azure private network
                                                                                                                  Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                      Application container

                                                                                                                                                      Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                                    80 / 443

                     public IP:                                                     kong
                     private IP:                                                     8445


                                     /categories                                                /moderate                                                  /categories
                                                                                                /categories                                                /submit
                                     /question/:category
                                                                                                                                                           /docs


                               4000                                               4100                          /categories                4200

                                                                           moderate                 submitted question                  submit
                            question               /categories
                               3000                                               3100                                                     3200             categories



             4002              4002                                                                  4102                                  4201                     4202
          MongoDB           MySQL                                      categories               rmq-admin                            SUBMITTED_QUESTIONS       rmq-admin
             27017             3306                  mysql                                           15672                                 5672                     15672
                                                      vol
                                                                                                                                    public IP:
                                                                                                                                    private IP:
                               4001                                                      4101
                                                         moderated questions
         mongo
          vol
                                   etl                                             MODERATED_QUESTIONS

                                                                                                                                                   Container port number
                               3001                                                      5672
                                                                                                                                                   Application port number
                     public IP:                                                public IP:
                     private IP:                                               private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                    94
▸   It is perfectly reasonable to install applications on your PC or server
     ▹    e.g. install nodeJs, put your app on there, install MySql server - as you have on your client
▸   In larger organisations, a more modern approach is to use containers so we will focus on that
▸   We will deploy containers on the local machine, then onto a remote machine
▸   The main tools we will use for containerisation are Docker, Docker Compose, and Kubernetes.
▸   Let's compare a container to an application system installation




                                                                                                          95
                                                            Application          Node                  MySQL
Installing files on the remote

              User 1




             User




             Admin
                                                                                            Database


                                                                            Physical or
                                                                          Virtual Machine
▸   Many files. Takes time. Embedded within the operating system
▸   Each VM build requires all this to be done again
▸   Database needs to be configured and populated
▸   Modern enterprise systems tend to use containers
                                                                                                               96
What are containers?



   Installed Files
                       Installed Files

 Operating System.
   e.g. Windows




                                         97
Containers on a physical machine
    Like a self-                                                                                      Like a
                           C   C   C   C                                                            room in a
    contained                                   Docker               Other installed apps
                           o   o   o   o                                                             shared
        flat                                 create, start,           notepad, word etc
                           n   n   n   n                                                              house
                                             stop, deploy        Share filesystem, libraries with
                           t   t   t   t      containers                   other apps
                           1   2   3   n



                                             Windows, Linux, Macos kernel


                                             Physical machine - e.g., laptop


▸   We need Docker installed to create and run and mange containers
▸   They have their own filesystem within the container
▸   Containers are self-contained and isolated from each other and other apps, and contain all app dependencies
▸   The container app uses the OS kernel for resource management similar to installed apps so kernels need to match
       ▹      Linux containers work on most Linux distros, Ubuntu, Red Hat, Centos etc as the kernel is the same and not version sensitive
       ▹      This is not the case for Windows. Versions need to match. They are not popular. Modern .net available on Linux
▸   Note: the hardware needs to be the same. e.g. both need to be X86 or maybe RISC if using mac
▸   So, we can test locally then deploy to a remote machine with a good level of confidence
       ▹      Less of the "Well it worked on my machine when I tested it but …"                                                              98
Docker image
▸   A Docker image is a file containing multiple elements needed for an application to run, similar to a system snapshot
▸   Let's say we have only NodeJS installed on a machine and we take a snapshot of it; this would become a base layer
    for your image. That's not how it works but can be visualized. Node is built into an image using Docker
▸   There are other base images such as MySql server, MongoDb, Nginx and various other core application people have
    built into a Docker image and made available for download
▸   Some images are free to use, some need to be paid for, some are maintained and some are not. Thousands are
    available on Docker hub
▸   You can take a base image such as NodeJs and add layers on top of it - i.e. your app and dependencies. A file called
    Dockerfile holds instructions on what to add into each new layer. Most instructions in a Dockerfile will create an
    additional layer on top of the image. Each layer is given a unique id
▸   Once we have added layers to the image such as any extra node packages, source code, config files or whatever we
    have that makes up our app and its dependencies, a new image which is the combination of those files is created
▸   From the image, Docker can build a container which is an isolated execution environment for our application




                                                                                                                           99
Prerequisites
▸   Docker was developed for Linux but installs on most systems. WSL is faster than Hyper-V so enable it
▸   Make sure you don't have the old version installed
     ▹    Open Turn Windows features on or off
     ▹    Look for wsl. If it is checked, uncheck it
▸   To enable new WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux) open powershell in admin mode and enter
     ▹    wsl --install, reboot when done
     ▹    Check it installed: wsl --version
     ▹    If you need to update it at a later date use: wsl --update
     ▹    Restart Vscode and you should have a Ubuntu wsl terminal option if you need Linux tools or prefer Linux


▸   Download Docker desktop from https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/
▸   Docker desktop is a GUI to interact with Docker instead of the CLI
     ▹    CLI is still available and the docker engine is installed but containers can be started, stopped, inspected etc from the desktop
     ▹    We won't have Docker desktop on the remote machine; we will use the CLI



                                                                                                                                             100
Docker build and deploy process



                                        Docker Hub




                             Image



                                                          Remote
                                       Azure Registry     Machine,
                                                          On-prem
 Dockerfile                                               or Cloud
                           Container


          Client Machine                Container Hosts




                                                                     101
                                                                                       NIC

   Windows
    Laptop

                                                                                Local
                                                                                                               Router & Internet
                                                 Container                      Host
                                                                              Loopback
   API
Application                                  API        3    8
                                          Application   0    0
                                               &        0    8
                                            Node        0    0
                       Docker
 NodeJS
                       Image
  Alpine
  Linux
                                                                 Sending to local host causes a loopback to
                                               Alpine            a server listening on port 8080 instead of
                                               Linux
                                                                 going out to the network and likely onto
                                                                 the internet
                                                                 Although containers do not need an OS,
              Docker                                             typically a very stripped-down version of
                                                                 key OS functionality is used as the app
                                Windows                          interacts with OS functions, but those
                                                                 functions call off to the host OS to access
                                                                 the hardware, memory, net calls …


                                                                                                                         102
                                                                                                                                   102
Initial dev and test

                                        ▸   Write the Dockerfile to provide build instructions
                                        ▸   Docker reads the file and creates the image
                                        ▸   Docker loads this image into a container to execute the code



                              Image




  Dockerfile
                            Container


           Client Machine




                                                                                                           103
Process
▸   Create a Dockerfile no extension - Note: # is a comment

FROM node:alpine    # Base image

WORKDIR /usr/app   # The directory in the container OS filesystem. The RUN command is executed in the WORKDIR

COPY ./package*.json . # COPY all package files (note the ".")

RUN npm install    # npm will be run from WORKDIR to install dependencies in the package.json into the image

COPY . . # COPY "." all files in the current directory into WORKDIR except for any in .dockerignore


CMD ["node", "app.js"] # start app.js when container starts




                                                                                                                104
          Build the image
            ▸     With reference to the six instructions in the Dockerfile, as each one is executed during the build process, a new layer
                  is created. .dockerignore can exclude files from the copy process such as the node_modules

                                                                                                                                                 Layer 6   Set entry point

                                                                                                                               COPY source                  COPY source
             Docker hub                                                                                            Layer 5      files to dest    Layer 5     files to dest

                                                                                      Layer 4   install packages   Layer 4    install packages   Layer 4   install packages


                                                            Layer 3    Copy json      Layer 3      Copy json       Layer 3       Copy json       Layer 3      Copy json

                                            WORKDIR                   WORKDIR                     WORKDIR                       WORKDIR                      WORKDIR
                               Layer 2                      Layer 2                   Layer 2                      Layer 2                       Layer 2
                                             /usr/app                  /usr/app                    /usr/app                      /usr/app                     /usr/app



Layer 1      node:alpine       Layer 1      node:alpine     Layer 1   node:alpine     Layer 1     node:alpine      Layer 1      node:alpine      Layer 1     node:alpine

                             Replicate

          FROM node:alpine               WORKDIR /usr/app        COPY ./package*.json .         RUN npm install                  COPY . .                  RUN npm install
                                                                                                                             Use .dockerignore
            Parent image
                                                                               Docker build                                                                Final image




                                                                                                                                                                              105
Create and run the container
                                                                  ▸   Container has everything it needs to run on OS
                                   Tmp Layer      read/write
                                                                  ▸   All layers are immutable
                                                                  ▸   Separate read / write layer added in the
 Layer 6   Set entry point           Layer 6   Set entry point
                                                                      container to change data, e.g. delete a file, add
            COPY source                         COPY source           a file, save some data
 Layer 5                             Layer 5     files to dest
             files to dest
                                                                  ▸   When the container is recreated, data persists
 Layer 4   install packages          Layer 4   install packages
                                                                  ▸   When the container is deleted, the tmp layer is
                                     Layer 3      Copy json           deleted as it was created within the container
 Layer 3      Copy json
                                                                      and is not added to the image the container was
             WORKDIR                             WORKDIR              built from
 Layer 2                             Layer 2
              /usr/app                            /usr/app
                                                                  ▸   This can be a problem if the container has a
                                                                      database
 Layer 1     node:alpine             Layer 1     node:alpine
                                                                  ▸   To persist data outside the container, Docker
                                                                      provided volumes (later)

             Final Image                         Final Image


                      docker run               Container



                                                                                                                          106
Build the image
▸   docker build . (Make sure Docker desktop is running) Will build the image and include all files in the
    current directory (note the '.'). The . means find the Docker file in the current directory
▸   List the images with docker images
▸   This is fine and the image is given an image ID which is the first 12 bytes of the sha 256 hash of the
    image – i.e. not very user friendly so use the –t option to add a tag, i.e. a name to the image repository
▸   docker build –t name:tag . Will build a docker image with node, alpine and our app from which a
    container can be created
▸   A tag will use the first part, name, as the repository name. The second part is used as an information tag
    – typically a version number
▸   Image name is repo-name:tag-value. E.g. docker build -t demo:v1 . would create and name the image
    demo:v1




                                                                                  /demos/docker/node-docker-demo


                                                                                                                   107
▸   .dockerignore lists files we don't want the COPY . . command to add to the image
▸   There is no need to add .dockerignore to the .dockerignore file, as docker knows not to copy it
▸   Ignoring the Dockerfile is optional. Add it if you want others to be able to look at it in the image to see
    how it was built or don't add it if you don't want them to see it or there are sensitive details in it
▸   We should add node_modules to dockerignore as we don't want to copy our local copy as they will only
    be overwritten when executing RUN npm install so is pointless and inefficient
▸   If you are using git or have other files you don't want to bloat the image unnecessarily, then add those to
    .dockerignore




                                                                                                                  108
Create and run app in local container
▸   Note: Docker have changed the syntax for some cli commands. The container commands are affected. Any container commands are
    now docker container sub-command. e.g. docker run becomes docker container run. Not yet enforced so I'll use the simpler
▸   To create a container, run and make accessible on a network, you specify an image name and port mapping :
     ▹     docker container run -d -p 4000:3000 --name test --rm demo:v1                         OR
     ▹     docker run -d -p 4000:3000 --name test --rm demo Is shorter
▸   -d means run in detached mode. i.e. in the background – otherwise the command line becomes unusable - but provides output
▸   -p means map ports. What port do you want the container to listen on and which port is your app listening on. For example, -p
    8080:3000 would set the container listening on port 8080 and would forward to 3000 for your app
▸   If you only have one container and one app, you may just use –p 3000:3000 or whatever, as long as the port is free
▸   A container is a running instance of an image. You could run the same image in multiple containers:
     ▹     docker run -d -p 4000:3000 --name cont1 --rm demo
     ▹     docker run -d -p 4001:3000 --rm demo
     ▹     Use localhost:4000 to access the first, localhost:4001 for the second. Both are listening on 3000 inside their container
▸   --name allows you to uniquely name the container rather than use the obscure Docker generated name such as frosty_northcut
▸   --rm means remove the container (delete it) once it’s stopped otherwise you need to do it as a separate step. This avoids building up
    loads of containers or having to manually delete them

                                                                                                       /demos/docker/node-docker-demo


                                                                                                                                            109
Useful Docker Commands
▸   docker image build –t name:tag . to create an image based on the Dockerfile script (was docker build)
▸   docker images will list your images
▸   docker image history --no-trunc image_name > image_history.txt shows all the layers (available in desktop now)
▸   docker image rm name or image id to delete an image (was docker rmi) - or use desktop
▸   docker container run -d -p ContPort:AppPort --name ContName --rm ImgName:tag (was docker run)
     ▹    docker container run -d -p 8080:3000 --rm --name test-cont test:1.0.0
▸   docker container run -it image_name sh if image has OS shell, enable access the contents (available in desktop)
▸   docker container ps will list your running containers
▸   docker container ps -a will list all containers including those stopped but not deleted
▸   docker container stop name will stop a container using the name if you gave it one using -- name
     ▹    It will auto delete the container and delete the image if you used the --rm option when you ran it
▸   docker container stop container_id use this if it's easier
     ▹    If you didn’t name the container, you can use the first few chars of its image ID e.g. docker stop 9db if say the image id was
          9dbcda7be14d and there wasn’t another starting 9db. Saves typing the container name
▸   docker inspect <container> shows the environment injected into the container


                                                                                                                                           110
▸   docker image tag OldName:tag NewName:tag will change the name of the image
▸   docker container rm [options] container to delete a container. If it won't stop, use -f as an option to force it
▸   docker push repo-name/image:tag e.g. docker push reg-name.azurecr.io/image:v1
▸   docker pull repo-name/image:tag e.g. docker pull dockerhub_name/image:tag
▸   docker image prune deletes all dangling images - i.e. they have no container association
▸   docker image prune -a delete all images including those associated to a container as long as container is stopped
▸   docker system prune delete stopped containers, unused networks, dangling images & unused build cache
▸   docker system prune -a as above but also images linked to a stopped container
▸   docker system prune -a --volumes this will delete as above but also volumes and anything created by docker
▸   docker volume ls lists all volumes and their drivers
▸   docker volume ls -q list all volumes but just their names. -q = quiet
▸   docker volume rm vol_name deletes the specified volume
▸   docker volume rm $(docker volume ls -q) deletes the list of volumes - i.e. all of them. $() expands to list for rm
▸   docker network ls to list all the networks
▸   docker network connect network container e.g. docker network connect yin_default yang connect yin default
    net to container called yang in different docker network created by compose on same machine - e.g. local machine

                                                                                                                         111
                                                                                                                 Public internet                     Virtual machine

Multiple Containers                                                                                              Azure private network
                                                                                                                 Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                     Application container

                                                                                                                                                     Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                                   80 / 443

                    public IP:                                                     kong
                    private IP:                                                     8445


                                    /categories                                                /moderate                                                  /categories
                                                                                               /categories                                                /submit
                                    /question/:category
                                                                                                                                                          /docs


                              4000                                               4100                          /categories                4200

                                                                          moderate                 submitted question                  submit
                           question               /categories
                              3000                                               3100                                                     3200             categories



            4002              4002                                                                  4102                                  4201                     4202
         MongoDB           MySQL                                      categories               rmq-admin                            SUBMITTED_QUESTIONS       rmq-admin
            27017             3306                  mysql                                           15672                                 5672                     15672
                                                     vol
                                                                                                                                   public IP:
                                                                                                                                   private IP:
                              4001                                                      4101
                                                        moderated questions
        mongo
         vol
                                  etl                                             MODERATED_QUESTIONS

                                                                                                                                                  Container port number
                              3001                                                      5672
                                                                                                                                                  Application port number
                    public IP:                                                public IP:
                    private IP:                                               private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                   112
Deploy multiple containers
 ▸   Containers can be built, pulled and networked using Docker, but Docker provides a tool called Docker Compose
 ▸   We create a definition of the containers we need in a compose file (written in YAML), which points to the Dockerfile of
     each image to be built. Compose builds containers and creates a network between them so they can communicate
 ▸   As we will generally be using multiple containers for each microservice, we will focus on Docker Compose
      ▹    we still need to understand Docker commands as the two tools work together
 ▸   I'll demo a simple example of running two of our demo containers
 ▸   Even if you only have one container you may still prefer this approach as there is less command line typing
      ▹    The stuff we write on the command line for Docker can go into a YAML config file for Compose




                                                                                                                               113
YAML
▸   Originally defined as “Yet Another Markup Language”, but as the point of it is to avoid markup such as XML start and
    end tags and JSON {}, it was renamed as a recursive name: “YAML Aint Markup Language”
▸   YAML is similar to JSON but is claimed to be more readable as it used indentation rather than delineation through {}
         ▹   i.e. a bit like python is supposed to be more readable than "real" languages
Comments
# starts a comment
Name:Value pairs
name: tony-nicol
description: YAML-example
Object
connection:
  port: 9000
  app: my-app




                                                                                                                           114
List / Array
list-name:
- url: http://1235.com
- url: http://1236.com
- url: http://1236.com
List / Array of objects. An array element can contain an object
services:
 - app: my-app
   port: 9000
   url: http://1234.com
 - app: my-app2
    port: 3000
    urls:
    - url: http://1235.com # - can be aligned to parent or indented
    - url: http://1236.com # Whichever you choose they all need to be the same
    - url: http://1236.com # in that list




                                                                                 115
Lists with simple data members (not objects) can be written in two ways
ports: [3000, 3001, 3002, 3003]
or
ports:
 - 3000
 - 3001
 - 3002
 - 3003


--- This effectively starts a new document within the same file




                                                                          /demos/docker/node-docker-demo


                                                                                                           116
Local app and container logical architecture
▸   yin and yang are two simple apps that synchronously
    communicate with each other just for illustration
                                                            Host machine
                                                            e.g. Laptop                        Browser
▸   If containers are built in the same compose file, a
    default private network is created to connect them




                                                                                                                     localhost, 127.0.0.1, ::1
▸   Everything communicates on localhost except inter-                                           yin
                                                                                                app
    container comms which use private IP range                                                  3000
     ▹    10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, 192.168.0.0/16
     ▹    private IPs <-> host names are service names                                          yang
                                                                                                app
     ▹    port numbers are app port numbers                                                     3001
▸   Compose file references Dockerfiles for each image
    build instructions                                                               env                         4
                                                           yin Dockerfile            vars        yin
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                            app container
▸   .env is referenced by compose and env vars sent to                                          3000
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 0
    container process when started                        yang Dockerfile

                                                                            Docker
                                                                                            Docker private net
                                                          compose.yaml
                                                                                     env                         4
                                                                                     vars       yang
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                            app container
                                                                    .env                                         0
                                  /Demos/docker/yinYang                                         3001
                                                                                                                 1

                                                                                                                                                 117
Cloud Hosting Intro
Objectives
▸   Explain the business and technical pros and cons of cloud computing
▸   Differentiate between the service models
▸   Explain the shared responsibility model
▸   Explain the difference between CapEx and OpEx
▸   Explain the concept of a virtual machine
▸   Compare and contrast a physical machine to a virtual machine
▸   Explain the differences between cloud deployment models
▸   Create a virtual machine on the cloud and deploy an application and runtime to it
▸   Use basic Linux commands
▸   Create and use an asymmetric key pair for an SSH session
▸   Create a container registry
▸   install Docker on a remote machine
▸   Push your image to a registry, pull the image and run a container on a remote machine



                                                                                            119
Introduction into Cloud Hosting
▸   You are now familiar with full stack development on your local machine. We now need to deploy
    remotely so potentially anyone in the world can access your application
▸   The backend can be implemented on a server in your home, in an office, in a data centre or in the cloud
    - as long as it is accessible from the internet
▸   Cloud hosting is just a load of data centres hosting lots of servers that you rent rather than buy
▸   An Azure and AWS data centre is generally referred to as an availability zone (AZ), there are exceptions
     ▹    Google refers to them just as "zones"




                                                                                                               120
Cloud Business Model
▸   For an enterprise, you need a lot of compute and storage. You need premises with strong physical
    security, redundant power, high speed networking, racks of servers with redundant power and network
    cards, lots of storage for files and databases, infrastructure security and the list goes on. All this comes
    as a sunk cost referred to as Capital Expenditure. You pay for it then the assets depreciate over time,
    about 5 years. You need specialised staff to install, protect and maintain all this equipment
▸   If you want to scale your application, i.e. give it more CPU or Storage, you need to buy and install more
    stuff which can take a long time. Once you have scaled up, if the traffic for your service reduces, you are
    stuck with a load of kit that’s hardly being used
▸   Amazon found themselves in this position and at times had a lot of spare capacity so why not rent it out?
    At least until you need it back. That idea grew into what we have today where the data centres are
    specifically used to rent these services
▸   This means businesses can replace CapEx with OpEx – i.e. operating costs which are service costs
    rather than depreciable asset costs. The rental model is basically pay for what you use. If you want more
    then pay more. If you want to scale down then do so and pay less
▸   The cost and hiring difficulties and permeant salary costs of all the specialist staff required to maintain
    and operate the infrastructure moves to cloud service provider so this is seen as a good business model
▸   Businesses can capitalise on economies of scale

                                                                                                                   121
What does "the cloud" & "on-prem" look like?




        Intel Xeon (Xeon Sierra Forest CPU) 288 cores per chip - 1,152 in this server

                                                                                        122
Virtual Machines
▸   It would be very inconvenient for the cloud provider if we wanted to rent 10 physical servers one day
    then reduce to 5 the next day. Having to re-route networking and security – pulling cables and plugging
    them in elsewhere is infeasible – but possible (and is one model)
▸   You may find that the extremely powerful physical machines are too big for your application, and you
    can’t get the most out of them and a whole machine is expensive.
▸   Businesses want to be able to scale their infrastructure regularly so a software approach to
    infrastructure architecture is required so the cloud providers can allocate machines that have been
    released, for immediate use for someone else
▸   A virtual machine is a software emulation of a physical machine hence the name virtual machine
▸   A physical machine can host multiple virtual machines which to the user, look just like a physical
    machine and although there is some performance overhead, virtual machines are now very mature and
    performant




                                                                                                              123
What are: Virtual Machine, Public Cloud, IaaS?
          DWP
         Client 1
                                                                             Hypervisor

                                  Asda           HSBC                         3           2
                                 Client 2        Client 3                1
                                                                              C           C
                                                                         C
                                                                              P           P
                                                                         P
                                                                              U           U
                                                                    6    U
                                                                   CPU
                                                                              6           3
                                                                         1
                                                                              4           2
                                                                   128   6
                                                                              G           G
 •   Send commands to cloud service to allocate a portion of the    GB   G
                                                                         B
                                                                              B           B
     physical server as a virtual server - this is IaaS            RAM
                                                                              R           R
                                                                         R
 •   Choose how much RAM                                                 A
                                                                              A           A
                                                                              M           M
 •   How many CPU                                                        M

 •   3 different orgs, different size VM
 •   Hypervisor ensures isolation of each
 •   Install an operating system on each one and it's a computer

      https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/Free
      https://aws.amazon.com/free




                                                                                              124
VM vs Container structure

A     A      A   A     A      A    A     A      A   A     A   A
p     p      p   p     p      p    p     p      p   p     p   p
p     p      p   p     p      p    p     p      p   p     p   p   C   C   C                                  C   C   C
1     2      n   1     2      n    1     2      n   1     2   n   o   o   o   Container                      o   o   o   Container
                                                                  n   n   n    Engine                        n   n   n    Engine
                                                                  t   t   t   (Docker)                       t   t   t   (Docker)
                                                                  1   2   n                                  1   2   n
      VM              VM                 VM
                                                         VM
     Linux            Win               Linux                                                                         VM
                                                        Win 11              VM
    Ubuntu           Server            Centos                                                                         Win
                                                                           Linux
                                                                          Ubuntu                                     Server


                              Hypervisor                                                     Hypervisor



                           Physical machine                                               Physical machine



                      Virtual Machines                                                    Containers



                                                                                                                                     125
▸   A VM is an isolated whole machine with its whole operating system and applications – like individual
    servers or PCs. They are isolated at the hypervisor level when using a type1 hypervisor as would be
    used in a data centre
▸   Because of the size of some of the operating systems – Win server 2025 requires 32GB of disk space
    (Ubuntu server is about 1.9GB), it can take minutes to load and start, and you often don't need most of
    the stuff in it
▸   If you only want to run a single app you have written, you don’t need all the OS tools, hundreds of
    drivers and bloat
▸   You can write your program on a laptop say, then, using a tool such as Docker, create an image and run
    as a container
▸   A container engine, e.g. Docker, runs on a single shared OS and creates a runtime environment for the
    containers
▸   The container is isolated from other containers at a process level – they are only accessible via a
    network IP




                                                                                                              126
Cloud Deployment Models
Private cloud
▸   Can be on-prem to provide complete control of infrastructure
▸   Can be in the cloud but completely private from others. No one else shares your physical servers
▸   Better security and privacy. Hosted in own data centre or cloud private managed servers to control sensitive data and data sovereignty
▸   Downside: all admin is provided by the customer
Public cloud
▸   Share infrastructure with unknown others – relies on good security configuration for segregation
▸   Costs less as when you switch something off, someone else can use that resource
▸   Access from anywhere in the world
▸   Security and privacy is more complex and important to get right
Hybrid
▸   Some systems on prem and some in the cloud
▸   Maybe for security - or as part of a phased migration – or to keep sensitive data on prem
▸   Applications and data can span both
▸   Much more complex
Community Cloud
▸   A cloud environment shared by several organisations with common goals or requirements, such as security, compliance, or policy. e.g.
    Government, Education, healthcare
                                                                                                                                             127
Cloud Service Models
▸   IaaS: Infrastructure as a service – you deploy and manage architecture, operating system, apps, databases etc
▸   Basically rent servers / memory / disk and related power, networking etc
▸   Fast server scaling
▸   No ownership of hardware - no more CapEx, move to OpEx
▸   Most control but also need more skilled staff such as architects, network specialists, dev-ops, maintenance team


▸   PaaS: Platform as a Service
▸   IaaS plus OS, tools, database etc. You just need to create and deploy the apps onto it and it will scale for you
▸   No need to worry about OS licenses, patching, upgrades etc.
▸   Less skilled resources needed – once architected, only need mainly developers. All patching etc is part of the service


▸   SaaS: Software as a Service
▸   Infrastructure, resilience, scaling, DR, elasticity etc is a managed service and so is the software and licenses
▸   Examples include: O365, SAP applications, Seibel CRM etc
▸   Unlike desktop apps, you can access SaaS applications from anywhere with any device that can access the internet


▸   DBaaS: Database as a service - full service between PaaS and SaaS in the cloud - e.g. MongoDB Atlas


                                                                                                                             128
Cloud Shared Responsibility Model




                                    129
Create a VM
Infrastructure as a service
▸   There are many cloud data centres around the world. They are generally referred to as availability zones
▸   We will start off just using one to deploy a simple application
▸   This is not a cloud computing course so I’ll stick to a need-to-know approach, you can research the rest if interested
▸   Azure (and others) is accessed using a web API where you can create, start, stop and remove resources
▸   You create a local area network, deploy virtual machines, install operating systems, deploy your application and data
    all via the web API
▸   The Azure resource manager creates resources you ask for. In Azure, all resources must belong to a resource group




                                                                                                                             131
▸   The portal is effectively an Azure web site that creates the API requests in a point and click approach.
    The portal is very convenient but not very practical other than for learning or trying stuff out
▸   Resources are normally built using code which interacts with the ARM through its API
▸   Code can be written in any language as long as long as it generates appropriate ARM API calls
▸   Or use the command line interface (CLI). The CLI needs to be installed. With this you can access the
    ARM API from your local machine with:
     ▹    Microsoft Powershell with pre-written commandlets (basically pre-written functions)
     ▹    Or shell script to issue CLI commands
▸   BASH and Powershell CLI is also available using Azure Cloudshell from a browser in the portal – this is
    an online CLI to write infrastructure as code rather than using your local machine
▸   So, quite a few options


▸   The free account only includes access to one type of VM for free - the B1S Burstable B series that’s
    usable for up to 750 hours per month
▸   If you are using your student account, check the limitations. e.g. 4 cpu per region, 3 public IP addresses

                                                                                                                 132
Deploy to the cloud
▸   We are nearly ready to deploy apps to the cloud
▸   If you don't have a Microsoft Azure account, then:
▸   You will need a Microsoft account first https://account.microsoft.com/account/Account
▸   You should have a student account. This gives to $100 and this isn't used if you use free tier services
▸   Student account is quite limited - e.g., 4 cpu and 3 public IP limit but there are ways around its
    limitations that I'll discuss. Access at: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students
▸   You could create a free account as well: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/free Note: you will need a
    credit or debit card for this. You won't be charged if you remain within the free credit. There is no 4 cpu
    and 3 public IP limit using this approach
▸   Once you have your account, you will have root access. It is not advisable to use this unless you
    absolutely must, and it's worth setting 2FA on it
▸   It's worth then setting an admin account for yourself and use that generally. If your admin account is
    compromised, e.g. someone hacks you and changes the password, you can still access your account
    using root and create a new admin account. There is a step-by-step guide here:
    https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal-subscription-
    admin
▸   I can't show any of this stuff on a corporate account as I don't have access to these things
                                                                                                                  133
Billing alert
▸   Set up a billing alert so you don't leave something running by mistake and run up a bill
▸   From the portal:
     ▹    Search for budgets
     ▹    Add
     ▹    Unique name
     ▹    Amount
     ▹    Next
     ▹    Type & percentage to trigger first alert
     ▹    Add email address
     ▹    That's it. You will get an email if your spend or projected spend hits x% of your limit
▸   Note: this is an alert. It will not stop you being billed so make sure your email isn't in spam




                                                                                                      134
Create a VM on Azure
▸   Various sizes and operating systems available
▸   Various methods available to create them - we will start with the Azure portal
▸   I've provided a couple of videos on how to do this from the portal
     ▹    "Create an ssh key pair in Azure in 4 minutes.mp4" (4 mins)
     ▹    "Create linux vm on Azure with ssh keys in 3 minutes.mp4" (3 mins)


▸   To connect remotely to a VM you need to create it with either a username and password or using an
    asymmetric key pair where the public part can be held by the cloud provider and the secret part by you.
    The key is used to encrypt the secure shell session SSH from your client machine to the VM
▸   Once the VM is setup, we have options. We could install nodejs then deploy our files and run the code in
    the same way we do on the local machine. You can install a database in the same way we have on our
    local machine so there is nothing new there, but the more modern and scalable approach is
    containerisation




                                                                                                               135
▸   Create a key pair
▸   Create a linux vm from the portal
▸   Connect to the vm from the client (or cloudshell - but you need to create a disk for this which is not free)
     ▹     ssh -i filepath/name.pem username@ipaddress
     ▹     or ssh username@ipaddress then enter the password when asked


▸   ssh uses port 22 so this needs to be open in the vm firewall (network security group)
▸   Issue a command to see the server is alive
     ▹     lsb_release -a
     ▹     move around between dirs




                                                                                                        create basic vm



                                                                                                                          136
Container deployment
Container deployment process



                                        Docker Hub


                                                              Azure VM
                             Image




                                       Azure Registry

 Dockerfile
                           Container
                                                          Azure App Services

          Client Machine                Container Hosts   Azure Web Host




                                                                               138
                   ▸   A registry is a place you store your images - typically online
                   ▸   This enables access to the image to others to create a container from it
                   ▸   There are various container registries: Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR),
 Docker Hub
                       Azure Container Registry (ACR), Docker Hub Container Registry, GitHub
                       Container Registry and others
                   ▸   You can make images available for others to download or you use theirs. I will use
                       Docker Hub as it is the most popular by far, and free

Azure Registry




 Container Hosts




                                                                                                            139
Create a container registry

There are various options but a popular one is Docker hub


Create a Docker hub registry
▸   Go to https://hub.docker.com/ and Sign up
▸   Enter docker ID - needs to be unique to you. Fill in other stuff - choose the free one unless you want to pay
▸   Note: you can now only have one private repo. You can have many public repos
▸   docker login docker.io -u oldgitdocker or, docker login -u oldgitdocker assumes docker.io
▸   To push an image called oldgitdocker/tst, use docker push oldgitdocker/tst




                                                                                                                    140
Deploy to a VM basic instructions
▸   Initial prerequisites:
▸   Create a vm - make sure you open appropriate ports - use password or key (aws doesn't support password)
▸   See: Create linux vm on Azure with ssh keys in 3 minutes.mp4
▸   Copy docker install shell script to install docker. Use winscp or other GUI app or just scp at the command line
▸   scp -i c:\your_key docker-az.sh you@your_ip:/home/you/docker-az.sh
▸   scp -i c:\your_key compose.yaml you@your_ip:/home/you/compose.yaml


▸   If using WinSCP, see using winscp.mp4
▸   Execute the docker install script on the remote machine by logging in to VM and entering
     ▹     bash docker-az.sh
     ▹     It takes a couple of minutes to install

▸   We can now build and deploy docker images and start them as containers on the VM




                                                                                                                      141
Deploying image
▸     The following illustrates the build and deploy process

            Client Machine                                     Container Hosts
                                                                                                Azure Web Host


                                                                                                 Azure VM

                                                                 Docker Hub

                                                                                                                        test

                            Image
                        oldgitdocker/tst
                                                               Other Registry




    docker compose build                             docker compose up
    docker login -u oldgitdocker (push)              http://40.81.137.204:4000/tst/tony?count=30&format=json
    docker push oldgitdocker/tst
                                                     docker compose down
    ssh -i c:\key\az.pem tony@40.81.137.204
    scp -i c:\key\az.pem path\compose.yml tony@40.81.137.204:/home/tony


                                                                                       /demos/docker/node-docker-demo
                                                                                                                         142
Container vs VM
▸   Both are used to create an isolated virtual environment - but they are different
▸   VM pros:
     ▹     Less expensive than physical computer as you can run more than one on the same hardware
     ▹     Necessary for cloud as you have no access to the physical machines
     ▹     Single hypervisor can manage all VM resource allocation and management
     ▹     Each process is isolated at the hypervisor level. Each can have a different OS
▸   VM cons:
     ▹     Take up a lot of resources - they are large - especially Windows VMs, many GBs so use a lot of disk space and RAM
     ▹     A VM rarely uses all allocated resources, so is less cost efficient, but, still more cost efficient than a physical machine
▸   Container pros:
     ▹     Can be small - a few MBs so potentially 1000 times smaller than a VM
     ▹     Due to their size and not having to deploy a whole OS, they can be deployed and quickly scale through replication
▸   Container cons:
     ▹     Unlike a VM, processes in a container are only isolated at the host kernel level so a little less secure
     ▹     Because the kernel is shared, each must work with the same OS that hosts Docker
     ▹     If one container misbehaves and causes instability in the kernel, it could affect the others
     ▹     If data needs to persist on container deletion, or restarted, a volume needs to be created on the host or network
                                                                                                                                         143
When to use one over the other

▸   A VM may be a better choice if you need to:
     ▹    Manage a variety of operating systems
     ▹    Manage multiple apps on a single server - i.e. make use of task switching
     ▹    Run an app that requires all the resources and functionalities of an OS
     ▹    Ensure full isolation and security


▸   A container may be a better choice if you need to:
     ▹    Maximize the number of apps running on a server - as they are small
     ▹    Deploy multiple instances of a single application
     ▹    Have a lightweight system that quickly starts
     ▹    Develop an application that runs on any underlying infrastructure
     ▹    If it runs on the test machine, it's highly likely to run on the target machine




                                                                                            144
Database container & Volumes
Objectives
On completion of this section you will be able to:
▸   Explain the need for Docker volumes
▸   Differentiate between a named volume and a bind mount
▸   Create a named volume and bind mount
▸   Deploy your application and database to the cloud the run in containers
▸   Use a .env file with compose to configure your system
▸   Use a Docker private network and explain how Docker creates private IPs and DNS names




                                                                                            146
Inter-microservice                                                                                                Public internet

                                                                                                                  Azure private network
                                                                                                                                                      Virtual machine



communication
                                                                                                                                                      Application container
                                                                                                                  Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                      Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                                    80 / 443

                     public IP:                                                     kong
                     private IP:                                                     8445


                                     /categories                                                /moderate                                                  /categories
                                                                                                /categories                                                /submit
                                     /question/:category
                                                                                                                                                           /docs


                               4000                                               4100                          /categories                4200

                                                                           moderate                 submitted question                  submit
                            question               /categories
                               3000                                               3100                                                     3200             categories



             4002              4002                                                                  4102                                  4201                     4202
          MongoDB           MySQL                                      categories               rmq-admin                            SUBMITTED_QUESTIONS       rmq-admin
             27017             3306                  mysql                                           15672                                 5672                     15672
                                                      vol
                                                                                                                                    public IP:
                                                                                                                                    private IP:
                               4001                                                      4101
                                                         moderated questions
         mongo
          vol
                                   etl                                             MODERATED_QUESTIONS

                                                                                                                                                   Container port number
                               3001                                                      5672
                                                                                                                                                   Application port number
                     public IP:                                                public IP:
                     private IP:                                               private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                    147
Docker volumes
▸   You could store data in the image and container. For example, the data files could be stored in, and accessed from,
    the container by copying them at build time or posting data into them using an API. However, this just makes the
    image and container larger, and the data is lost when the container is deleted as they are ephemeral
▸   There are essentially five volume types, but we will focus on the main two: named volumes and bind mounts.
    These are used for persisting or accessing data outside the container. These are created on the host but managed
    by docker. Multiple containers can share a named volume
▸   As a volume exist on the host, it's stored in a protected docker directory, so on container deletion, the data persists
▸   A database for example needs somewhere to store its data outside the ephemeral container. A volume satisfies this
▸   Volumes can be created in a Dockerfile but as we are creating multiple containers, we will use compose so will
    configure the volumes in there
Named Volume
▸   This will associate a name with the folder value in the name value pair. It's as if you had created a disk with the
    specified name. Writing to /usr/src/data in the container, will write to a protected docker folder on the file system
    called data (or whatever you call the volume) as if it was a logical disk if declared as follows:
▸
    volumes:
       - data:/usr/src/data


                                                                                                                              148
                                                                     compose.yaml
                        container 1                 container 2

                         /usr/data                   /mystuff




                                         data                        services:
                                                                      cont1:
                                                                       volumes
                                                                       - data:/usr/stuff
                         host file system e.g. Windows, Ubuntu
                                                                      cont2:
                                                                       volumes
                                                                        - data:/mystuff

                                                                     volumes:
                                                                      data:

▸   Compose file maps specific service folder to a volume
▸   Compose declares the creation of a volume called data on the host OS - can be elsewhere also e.g. S3

                                                                                                           149
Docker bind mounts
▸   A bind mount maps a directory in the container to a directory on the host machine
     ▹    Unlike a volume, no space is created, write to one and data is seen in the other
▸   Say a file or dir outside the container is needed in the container at /usr/app/whatever
▸   But the data is actually on the host in say /home/username/stuff
     ▹    A bind mount which maps these will enable the container to access /usr/app/whatever but the actual data
          accessed is /home/username/stuff on the host
▸   e.g., declare a bind mount as a volume but not to create a volume, just map two folders onto each other
▸   volumes:
     - /hostPath:/containerPath
     - /home/username/stuff:/usr/app/whatever




                                                                                                                    150
App & Database containers                                                          Host machine
                                                                                   e.g. Laptop
                                                                                                                                                 Browser



▸   MySql data stored in files on host file system (Win)




                                                                                                                                                                                            localhost, 127.0.0.1, ::1
                                                                                                                                                Database
▸   MySql data Container files stored on file system (Linux)                                                                                       app
                                                                                                                                                  3000
     ▹    But that is the Alpine Linux in the container
     ▹    Volume maps data outside the container
                                                                                                                                                  MySql
     ▹    Alpine dir mapped to Ubuntu Docker dir                                                                                                 installed
                                                                            C:\ProgramData\MySQL\MySQL Server 8.1\Data                             3306
     ▹    Docker dir Ubuntu: /var/lib/docker/volumes/
     ▹    Docker references as mysql or whatever you named it                                                                     env
                                                                                                                                  vars           Joke
                                                                                       Dockerfile                                                                          8
▸   In Windows, volumes are stored in wsl at:                                                                                                app container
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                 3000
     ▹    \\wsl$\docker-desktop-data\data\docker\volumes

                                                                                                                         Docker
                                                                                 compose.yaml                                               Docker private net

                                                                                                                                  env                                      4
                                                                                                                                  vars            MySql
                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                 container
                                                                                              .env                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                   3306
                                                                                                                                                                           1


                                                                                                           Host system
                       \Demos\data\poor joke sql to improve in lab\app.js                                                                                                 Volume
                                                                                                                                                                          mysql:/var/lib/mysql
                                                                                                                                   Bind mount
                                         jokePoorMySqlContainers.mp4                                                               ./dbinit:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        151
Some useful compose commands
▸   Docker compose has a cli like Docker. However, most of the commands can be used in the desktop if you don't like typing. Details here:
    https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/
▸   docker compose build will build all the images defined in the compose.yaml file
▸   docker compose up will start all the containers
▸   or with one command, docker compose up --build will do both
▸   docker compose up -d will run the containers in detached mode
▸   docker compose exec -it etl sh      This will start the shell if sh is available. Some images have bash in them too
▸   docker compose exec -it mysql-svr bash        The mysql image has bash and sh
▸   docker compose exec -it caller sh This only has sh as it is built from alpine. -it gives us access to a terminal
▸   docker exec does the same thing but uses the container name not the service name
      ▹      docker exec -it etl-cont sh
      ▹      docker exec -it mysql-cont bash
      ▹      docker exec -it caller-cont sh
▸   docker compose down will stop and delete all containers, networks, volumes created with up
      ▹      named volumes won't be deleted unless you add --volumes or -v
      ▹      images are not deleted unless you add --rmi local | all
▸   docker system prune --all -- volumes deletes everything
▸   docker compose logs -f useful to see all console.log statements when on cloud
▸   docker compose restart service-name to restart a stopped container
▸   docker compose config you can check, even before building, what the compose file looks like after parsing all env substitutions for checking
                                                                                                                                                   152
Microservice Inter-communication
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this work, you should be able to:
     ▹   Explain the differences between synchronous and asynchronous message patterns
     ▹   Discuss, a use-case explaining the benefits and challenges of using synchronous messaging
     ▹   Discuss, a use-case explaining the benefits and challenges of using asynchronous messaging
     ▹   Explain the difference, with a use-case, of provider / consumer, and publisher / subscriber patterns
     ▹   Implement synchronous and asynchronous message patterns for inter-microservice communication




                                                                                                                154
Inter-microservice                                                                                                Public internet

                                                                                                                  Azure private network
                                                                                                                                                      Virtual machine



communication
                                                                                                                                                      Application container
                                                                                                                  Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                      Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                                    80 / 443

                     public IP:                                                     kong
                     private IP:                                                     8445


                                     /categories                                                /moderate                                                  /categories
                                                                                                /categories                                                /submit
                                     /question/:category
                                                                                                                                                           /docs


                               4000                                               4100                          /categories                4200

                                                                           moderate                 submitted question                  submit
                            question               /categories
                               3000                                               3100                                                     3200             categories



             4002              4002                                                                  4102                                  4201                     4202
          MongoDB           MySQL                                      categories               rmq-admin                            SUBMITTED_QUESTIONS       rmq-admin
             27017             3306                  mysql                                           15672                                 5672                     15672
                                                      vol
                                                                                                                                    public IP:
                                                                                                                                    private IP:
                               4001                                                      4101
                                                         moderated questions
         mongo
          vol
                                   etl                                             MODERATED_QUESTIONS

                                                                                                                                                   Container port number
                               3001                                                      5672
                                                                                                                                                   Application port number
                     public IP:                                                public IP:
                     private IP:                                               private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                    155
Inter Microservice Communication
▸   HTTP is synchronous
     ▹   JavaScript overcomes thread blocking with callbacks or promises but an http request still waits for a
         response, so http is synchronous
     ▹   Synchronous HTTP API is fine in some circumstances but does more tightly couple the services than an
         asynchronous approach - e.g. if the endpoint changes, it affects all the callers as the contract is broken for
         all of them or at best, inconsistent . Could build-in versioning into the path to minimise this
     ▹   Response is generally fast as it's a direct point to point call
     ▹   What about destination service failure? Http doesn't account for this unlike SOAP. e.g. you post some
         data and get a 500 response - what has happened to the data? How do you recover? More code needed
     ▹   What about adding another microservice destination? e.g. You are already calling a "Change of
         circumstances" microservice with say an address change. A new payment service, also requiring the
         change of address, would result in a new interface from the caller



                                  Microservice 1              Microservice 2



                                                              Microservice 3


                                                                                                                          156
▸   Asynchronous messaging may be a better option in some cases
     ▹   A microservice posts to a queue and that's it. The response is immediate, but the message must wait
     ▹   Ms 1 doesn’t need to know if ms 2 can cope with a burst of messages that it can't cope with
     ▹   The microservices are decoupled - the contract is with the queue. Ms1 need know nothing about Ms2
     ▹   If Ms2 goes down, Ms1 doesn't know or care
     ▹   Shared message queue pattern, as illustrated below, typically uses a dynamic FIFO data structure - a queue




                                                m   m   m   m   m
                                                s   s   s   s   s
                           Microservice 1       g   g   g   g   g    Microservice 2
                                                5   4   3   2   1

                                                 Message broker




                                                                                                                      157
Message brokers
▸   Message brokers implement the asynchronous message pattern. There's quite a selection:
▸   RabbitMQ - open source
▸   Apache Kafka - open source
▸   Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) - AWS
▸   Azure message broker and Azure storage queue (ASQ)
▸   and more …


▸   We will have an introductory look at RabbitMQ and Apache Kafka as they are cloud agnostic
▸   However, if all-in with a particular cloud provider, their services may be preferential




                                                                                                158
Producer/Consumer and Pub/Sub patterns                                 Queue


                                                                          M M M M
▸   Asynchronous service to service messaging                             s s s s
                                                                Prod      g g g g
                                                                                           Cons
▸   One producer and one consumer
                                                                          4 3 2 1
▸   Use fan-out for pub/sub - adding a new microservice
▸   Generally, uses push to consumer
▸   Resilience is built-in to avoid SPOF                                  M M M M
                                                                          s s s s
                                                                          g Mg Mg Mg M
                                                                                           Sub 1
▸   Implemented using a message broker
                                                          Pub             4 s3 s2 s1 s      Sub 2
                                                                            g Mg Mg Mg M
▸   Several patterns
                                                                            4 s3 s2 s1 s
                                                                              g g g g
                                                                                            Sub 3
                                                                              4 3 2 1


                                          M   M   M   M
                                          s   s   s   s
        Producer                          g   g   g   g
                                          4   3   2   1                   M M M M          Cons 1
                                                                          s s s s
                          M   M   M   M   M   M   M   M
                                                                Prod      g g g g          Cons 2
                          s   s   s   s   s   s   s   s                   4 3 2 1
       Consumer           g   g   g   g   g   g   g   g                                    Cons 3
                          1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8




                                                                                                    159
Simple synchronous scenario




                              160
Publisher / Subscriber asynchronous alternative




                                                  161
RabbitMQ terminology
▸   RabbitMQ implements the Advanced Message Queueing Protocol (AMQP) standard which is a platform agnostic
    protocol to transfer information between applications. The source and dest are: producer and consumer
▸   Connection
     ▹      This is a network connection between an app and the queue. Similar to a database connection
▸   Channel
     ▹      virtual connection inside a connection. Multiple channels can be created within a single connection, allowing
            for concurrent operations and communication between different parts of a client application
     ▹      For example, you might have one channel for produced messages and another for consuming messages
            within the same connection to RabbitMQ
▸   Queue
     ▹      A FIFO-based message storage and delivery component
     ▹      It holds messages sent by producers until they are consumed by consumers
▸   RabbitMQ is available as a docker container
     ▹      It can implement queues and message routing through a message exchange component which can route
            messages to various queues based on a routing key
     ▹      It has a management interface to setup and monitor the queues

                                                                                                                            162
▸   Producer / Publisher
     ▹    An application that sends a message to the broker. The broker confirms the message is queued
▸   Consumer / Subscriber
     ▹    Application that consumes the message. Consumer informs rabbitmq that it received the message
          (acknowledges it) so it can be removed from the queue. Without ack, the message stays where it is
▸   Exchange
     ▹    Receives messages from producers and routes them to the correct queue based on rules associated with a
          routing key
▸   Routing key
     ▹    This can be a word, series of words, wildcard. e.g. all messages that contain pr* as a post code are sent to a
          queue for consumers of Preston based messages - e.g. for a targeted mail shot
▸   Virtual host
     ▹    Segregates applications using the same rabbitmq instance. Think of it as separate broker instances each with
          different permissions and credentials but built into a single instance, e.g. a single container




                                                                                                                           163
Rabbitmq exchange types
▸   Direct
     ▹       a producer and consumer are using one queue based on the binding key (we use this & default exchange)
▸   Topic
     ▹    a wildcard match between the routing key and the routing pattern determines the queue. Like the Preston
          example
▸   Fanout
     ▹ routes a message to all the queues - e.g. message sent to multiple microservices - pub / sub pattern

▸   All this is summarised in the Rabbitmq documentation as:




                                                                                                                     164
Azure VNet




                                                            15672        15672

                                                                RabbitMQ                                  4001                          4002
                                                                Manager
                    rabbit-vol
                                                                                                     Consumer 1                 Consumer 2
                                                            m    m   m    m   m
                                                            s    s   s    s   s
                                               E            g    g   g    g   g                           3001                          3002
             4000
                                               x            1    2   3    4   5
                                               c
                                    5672                         tv queue         5672
                                               h
       Producer                                                                                                                            20.0.121.208
                                    5672       a
                                                                                                                                              10.1.0.5
                                               n            m    m   m    m   m                              Consumer Virtual Machine
                                               g            s    s   s    s   s
         3000                                               g    g   g    g   g
                                               e
   Producer Container                                       1    2   3    4   5          ▸   Containers communicate on Docker network within vm

                                                            computer queue               ▸   VMs connect via VM private IPs. Unless you create DNS,
                                                                                             you need to use actual IP addresses
    20.108.32.75                                   RabbitMQ Container
      10.1.0.4
                                                                                         ▸   The broker can have multiple queues. Consumers
                                                                                             subscribe to one queue
                                 Producer Virtual Machine
                                                                                                                                                          165
RabbitMQ demo                                                           Browser


                                                                        Producer
▸   One VM will host the producer and message broker                      3000

▸   Another will host the consumer                                      Consumer
                                                                          3001




                                                                                       localhost, 127.0.0.1, ::1
▸   Test in vscode
     ▹   If consumer is down, producer should still work
     ▹   Start consumer and it should clear the queue

                                                                        RabbitMQ   5
                                                                                   6
                                                                         broker    7
                                                                          5672     2

                                                                                   1
                                                                        RabbitMQ   5
                                                                         Admin     6
                                                                         15672     7
                                                                                   2




                                  Demo in vscode
                                  \demos\architecture\rabbitOneQueue\



                                                                                                                   166
RabbitMQ demo                                                                                                      Browser


                                                                                                                  Producer
▸   Create two sets of containers as we will deploy on different VMs                                                3000

▸   As they are on different networks, we need to join them to test
                                                                                                                  Consumer
     ▹    If container recreated, you need to rejoin to network                                                     3001




                                                                                                                                  localhost, 127.0.0.1, ::1
     ▹    docker network ls to list them
     ▹    docker network connect producer_net consumer
     ▹    docker network connect consumer_default producer                                                        Producer    4
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                  container   0
     ▹    docker network inspect network_name - look in container list                                              3000      0



                                                                                               producer_net
▸   Deploy images to registry                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                  RabbitMQ
                                                                                                                              6
▸   Create two VMs and install Docker                                                                              broker     7
                                                                                                                    5672      2
     ▹    Remember to change consumer IP to producer private address
                                                                                                                              1
▸   Pull images and start containers                                                                              RabbitMQ    5
                                                                                                                   Admin      6
                                                                                      bridge                                  7
▸   Test from public IPs                                                                                           15672
                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                               consumer_default
                                                                                                                  Consumer    4
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                  container   0
                                                                                                                    3001      1

                                                \demos\architecture\rabbitOneQueue\
                                                                                                                                                              167
                                                                                                                                             Internet public
                                                                                                                                             Docker private
                                                                                                                                             Azure private


Azure VNet
                                                                                                                          ▸   Containers communicate on Docker
                                                                                                                              network within vm
                                                                                                                          ▸   VMs connect via VM private IPs. Unless
                                                                                                                              you create DNS, you need to use actual
                                                                                                                              IP addresses
                                                       15672        15672
                                                                                                                          ▸   VMs need to be in the same VNet
                                                           RabbitMQ                                    4001               ▸   Producer connects to the broker on port
                                                           Manager                                                            5672 & registers a callback
               rabbit-vol                                                                                                 ▸   It creates one or more queues
                                                                                                  Consumer 1
                                                       m    m   m    m   m
                                                                                                                          ▸   It sends messages to one or more
                                                                                                                              queues
                                                       s    s   s    s   s
                                          E
        4000
                                          x
                                                       g
                                                       1
                                                            g
                                                            2
                                                                g
                                                                3
                                                                     g
                                                                     4
                                                                         g
                                                                         5
                                                                                                      3001                ▸   The producer is on the same vm as the
                                                                                                                              broker
                                          c
                               5672                    computer queue        5672                                         ▸   The consumer on a different vm connects
                                          h
     Producer                                                                                                                 to the broker on port 5672 and
                               5672       a
                                                                                                    20.0.121.208              subscribes to a queue
                                          n            m    m   m    m   m
                                                                                                       10.1.0.5
        3000
                                          g            s    s   s    s   s                                                ▸   When a message appears on the queue,
                                          e            g    g   g    g   g                                                    the broker calls the consumer's callback
                                                                                              Consumer Virtual Machine
                                                       1    2   3    4   5
  Producer Container                                                                                                          function to deliver the message
                                                           other queue                                                    ▸   Consumer acks the message, the broker
                                                                                                                              removes the message from the queue
   20.108.32.75                               RabbitMQ Container
     10.1.0.4                                                                       \demos\architecture\rabbitOneQueue\   ▸   You can view the queues by connecting
                            Producer Virtual Machine                                                                          to the broker's console app on port 15672
                                                                                                                                                                     168
API Gateway
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this work, you should be able to:
     ▹   Explain the benefits of using an API gateway including
           ▹   Architectural
           ▹   Security
           ▹   Orchestration
           ▹   Rate limiting
           ▹   Monitoring
           ▹   Authentication
           ▹   Caching
     ▹   Explain any disadvantages of using an API gateway
     ▹   Implement an API gateway in local containers and in the cloud




                                                                         170
                                                                                                                    Public internet                       Virtual machine
                                                                                                                    Azure private network                 Application container
                                                                                                                    Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                          Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                                                                                                                 Container port number
                                                                           80 / 443
                                                                                                                                                                 Application port number
            public IP:                                                     kong
            private IP:                                                     8445


                            /categories                                                /moderate                                         /categories
                            /question/:category                                                     /categories                          /submit
                                                                                                                                         /docs


                      4000                                               4100                                            4200

                                                                  moderate                 submitted question         submit
                   question               /categories
                      3000                                               3100                                            3200            categories



    4002              4002                                                                  4102                         4201                    4202
 MongoDB           MySQL                                      categories               rmq-admin                   SUBMITTED_QUESTIONS       rmq-admin
    27017             3306                  mysql                                           15672                        5672                     15672
                                             vol
                                                                                                                  public IP:
                                                                                                                  private IP:
                      4001                                                      4101
                                                moderated questions
mongo
 vol
                          etl                                             MODERATED_QUESTIONS


                      3001                                                      5672

            public IP:                                                public IP:
            private IP:                                               private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                           171
                        Public IP




                                                                    Public

                                                                                          API
                                                                                        Gateway
                                                                    Private

                  yin        Private IP    yang



Virtual Machine
                                                  Virtual Machine
                                                                              yin                      yang


                         Docker Engine
                                                                                     Docker Engine
                             Host OS
                                                                                        Host OS
                        Physical Machine
                                                                                    Physical Machine


                                                                                                              172
                                                        Kong API Gateway
Public internet

Azure private network

Docker private network

                                                             ▸   Single point of entry to all applications. No need for multiple ports and IPs
                                                             ▸   Gateway acts as a reverse proxy, forwards requests to applications so
 Public                                                          manages what is available to the public
                                   80                        ▸   All interaction between containers and gateway are private so don't need
                             Kong Gateway                        encryption unless you really need the extra security
 Private
                              Host OS                        ▸   User connects to kong public ip with required path. e.g.
                                                                 52.151.73.23:80/yin/yin.html to get the main page and resources
                               Kong VM
                              52.151.73.23                   ▸   Kong will forward to the private ip of the yinyang vm. e.g.
                                                                 http://10.0.0.9:4000 on the Azure private network to the yin container
                                                             ▸   The container forwards the request onto the node application at 3000

                   4000                          4001        ▸   The containers communicate between each other on a private docker
                                                                 network if on the same VM. e.g. yin makes a request to yang at its DNS
                    yin                         yang
                                                                 name: yang:3001
                  yin:3000                     yang:3001
                                                             ▸   The gateway and applications are independently scalable
                               yinyang VM
                              172.167.45.247
                                 10.0.0.9



                                                                                                                                                 173
Kong high level features




  ▸   Avoid replicating functionality such as rate limiting and authentication - add using Kong plugins
  ▸   Single entry point so https can be implemented once
  ▸   Aggregation of API calls - e.g. one request to multiple api calls, Kong can orchestrate that - reduces bandwidth
  ▸   Acts as a reverse proxy to protect services from the internet - users never see the endpoint IP
  ▸   Operates in two different modes: with database or without (db-less mode)
       ▹    Database - typically Postgres or Cassandra - centrally stores all config info
       ▹    In db-less, config is stored on each node - simpler deployment as no database dependency
       ▹    db-less uses declarative code, db approach uses imperative via API



                                                                                                                         174
API Gateway properties
▸   Request Routing: route client requests to the appropriate microservices based on the URL or request parameters
▸   Load Balancing: load balancing evenly among multiple instances of the same microservice
▸   Security: authentication, authorization, and security in one place
▸   Rate Limiting: restricts the number of requests per min. Prevents abuse, protects backend resources
▸   Throttling: sets rate of processed requests, often by slowing down responses (queue) to smooth traffic spikes
▸   Caching: cache microservice responses. Reduce backend load and improve response times
▸   Logging and Analytics: provide logging to analyse traffic patterns and API usage
▸   Aggregation: aggregate multiple microservice responses into a single client response
     ▹    reduces latency for client as they can make one rather than several individual calls




                                                                                                                     175
▸   Disadvantages - not many but they need to be considered
     ▹   Single point of failure. Must be designed to be resilient and scalable - multi-node with load balancer
     ▹   Extra hop may introduce a bit of extra latency
     ▹   Adds complexity to the architecture - needs configuring, monitoring and maintenance (e.g. patching)
     ▹   Extra cost: cost to run and knowledgeable staff to understand the technology so adds to cost
     ▹   Security, this is an advantage but, as all services are accessible from here, it increases the attack surface for
         hackers so security of the gateway must be carefully designed




                                                                                                                             176
177
▸   The gateway is relatively simple to use:
     routes are defined in kong.yaml and associated with a forwarding address




     ▹    http:// 52.151.73.23/yin is matched on path then origin changed to http://10.0.2.4:4000/yin because strip_path is false
     ▹    http://52.151.73.23/yang/home is forwarded to http://10.0.2.4:4001/home because strip_path is true so yang is removed
            ▹     strip_path is true by default and will remove from the source path, the path element specified in the path property
            ▹     Can be useful for example, for versioning:
                  kongIP/api/v1-1-2/books/:media could be routed to 10.0.2.3/books/:media by specifying /api/v1-1-2 in the paths and
                  strip_path: true
            ▹     kongIP/api/v1-2-0/books/:media could be routed to 10.0.3.5/books/:media as kong will match the source path to the
                  paths definition to find a match, then remove the source path and replace the IP address
     ▹    So, it's up to you what you use - strip_path enables flexibility in how traffic is forwarded
     ▹    For more complex path filtering, regex can be used


                                                                                                                                        178
                         Public

                                                    80
Public internet
                                                Kong Gateway
Azure private network    Private
Docker private network                           Host OS


                                                 Kong VM
                                                20.117.106.1




                                    4000                          4001

                                     yin                           yang
                                   yin:3000                     yang:3001

                                                yinyang VM
                                              172.167.243.255
                                                  10.0.0.9

                                                                /demos/architecture/API gateway kong
                                                                                                       179
Event driven architecture
RabbitMQ and Kafka
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you should be able to:
     ▹    Explain the benefits and limitations of various messaging and architectural patterns including:
           ▹    request-response
           ▹    point-to-point asynchronous
           ▹    publisher-subscriber
           ▹    event notification
           ▹    event streaming
           ▹    event carried state transfer (ECST)
     ▹    Design and draw and explain a basic event-driven architecture
     ▹    Differentiate between "Thick" and "Thin" events and explain the advantages and disadvantages
     ▹    Explain the properties and basic operation of Kafka
     ▹    Compare an event driven architecture to a message driven architecture
     ▹    Compare the key properties of Kafka to RabbitMQ
     ▹    Explain how Kafka partitions enable parallel processing




                                                                                                            181
                                                                                                              Public internet                                          Virtual machine
                                                                                                              Azure private network
Event-driven
                                                                                                                                                                       Application container
                                                                                                              Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                                       Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                  80 / 443                                                                                                    Container port number
                                                                                                                                                                              Application port number
public IP:                                                            kong
private IP:
                                                                          8445


                   /types
                                                                                     /types                                                  /types
                   /joke/:type                                                       /moderate                                               /submit
                                                                                     /moderated                                              /docs

                4000
                                               public IP:                                                   public IP:
                joke                           private IP:                                                  private IP:

                3000
                                                            4100                                                        4200

                                                       moderate                                                  submit
       4002     4002                                        3100                           types                        3200                           types
  MongoDB      MySQL

                                                moderated   type_update                                                        type_update
       27017    3306
                                                                            submit                             submit
                                  mysql
                                   vol


                                                                                                   5672                                                        15672
                4001
                                 moderated
mongo
                etl                                                                       RabbitMQ Broker                                              rmq-admin
 vol
                             type_update                                                           5672                                                        15672
                3001

public IP:                                   public IP:
private IP:                                  private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                                        182
Inter-microservice messaging                                                               Request-response pattern
                                                                                           e.g., http, gRPC
                                                                               Prod                                       Cons
▸   As a reminder of what we have already done
▸   Request-response pattern. http is the simplest messaging                            Point-to-point asynchronous pattern
    pattern, and given there is no intermediary isn't usually even                      e.g. Queue on RabbitMQ
    classified as a messaging pattern. More of an interaction
    pattern. Tight coupling.                                                                            M M M M
                                                                                                        s s s s
▸   Point-to-point (p2p) asynchronous message pattern.                       Prod                                             Cons
                                                                                                        g g g g
    Typically implemented with a queue. Single producer and                                             4 3 2 1
    single consumer. Loose coupling.
▸   Publisher-subscriber pattern. Typically shown as one
    publisher and many subscribers but also supports many
    publishers if required. Often implemented using RabbitMQ in                        Publisher-subscriber pattern
    a topic configuration if we want subscribers to subscribe to                       e.g. RabbitMQ fan out, Kafka
    specific topics. The exchange will filter on topic, e.g. PR* in
    a postcode all go to queue1 for example.                                                             M M M M
                                                                                                         s s s s
▸   Alternatively, RabbitMQ can be configured with a fanout                                              g Mg M g M g M
                                                                                                                              Sub 1
    exchange, where every message published to the exchange           Pub                                4 s3 s 2 s 1 s         Sub 2
                                                                                                           g Mg Mg Mg M
    is delivered to every bound queue, and therefore to every                                              4 s3 s2 s1 s
    subscriber. Unlike topic exchanges, no routing key or                                                    g g g g
                                                                                                                                 Sub 3
    filtering is applied.                                                   Exchange                         4 3 2 1
▸   This reminder is because this is a popular exam topic, and I
    will use RabbitMQ fanout in pub-sub mode for event
    processing

                                                                                                                                         183
What is an event
▸   A significant change in state or occurrence within a system that is captured and communicated as a
    discrete message to notify other components
     ▹   Represents state change: e.g., "OrderPlaced", "PaymentProcessed", or "UserLoggedIn"
     ▹   Immutable: An event is a statement of fact - we don't change it
     ▹   Context: Data describes the change. e.g., orderID, userDetails, timestamp or whatever
     ▹   Asynchronous: generally published to an event bus or broker (e.g. Kafka, RabbitMQ)
▸   Use case:
     ▹   In an event-based microservice architecture, messaging tends to act like a state machine. A change in one
         service may need to be know by others
     ▹   For example, services tend to have a master data store - often called a System of Record (SoR) - single
         source of truth
     ▹   In a distributed system such as microservices, other microservices may need access to that SoR data
     ▹   We'll look now at a basic event-driven architecture and discuss event-messaging




                                                                                                                     184
Event driven architecture
    Order                                Payments                                                           Customer
    Web UI                              External API                                                        Account




                                                                     Warehouse               Notification
          1                             3                           Micro Service           Micro Service



                                                            6             Ship
                                                                                                             7

                                                                                    Delivery                             Cust
     Orders       Orders             Payments                         Shipping                          Cust Details
                                                                                    Address                             Details
  Micro Service                     Micro Service                   Micro Service                       Micro Service
                                                                                        5
                                                       4        5
                           2

                               Orders                      Payments                             Address

                                                                                                                                  185
  Order                                 Payments                                                          Customer
  Web UI                               External API                                                       Account
                                                                Email
                                                                SMS




                        Warehouse                       Notification
                        Microservice                    Microservice

                                                          <New Order>
                                                          <Ship>
                              <Ship>                     <Change Address>
                                                         <Paid>


                                                                                         Delivery                        Cust
  Orders       Orders                   Payments                        Shipping                         Cust Details
                                                                                         Address                        Details
Microservice                           Microservice                    Microservice                      Microservice

                                   <New Order> <Paid>           <Paid> <Ship>         <New Address>         <Change Address>
<New Order>
                                                           <New Order>                <Change Address>      <New Address>


                                                        Event Bus

                                                                                                                                  186
                                   Moderate                                 Real-time
      Get Joke                                                                               Submit Joke
                                    Joke                                     Reports
                                                              Email
                                                              SMS




                                                   Notify Moderator
                                                    Microservice

                                                        <New Joke>




                                                                                     Data
     Deliver Joke     Jokes        Moderator                          Reporting              Submit Joke
                                                                                    Models
     Microservice                 Microservice                       Microservice            Microservice


<Moderated>      <Delivered>   <New Joke> <Moderated>        <Delivered> <New Joke>             <New Joke>
                                          <Rejected>         <Rejected> <Moderated>


                                                       Event Bus

                                                                                                             187
Point to point synchronous messaging
                          ▸   User submits data to MS2
                          ▸   MS2 writes data to the SoR. If it needs access to the data, it reads
                              from the SoR
                          ▸   MS3 writes data to the SoR. If it needs access to the data, it
                              reads from the SoR
            MS2           ▸   If a user needs data, MS1 or MS2 need to access the SoR.
                  Cache       This is inefficient and tightly coupled - if the SoR fails, the
   MS1                        whole system fails

            MS3
                          ▸   MS2 and MS3 could keep a copy of the SoR for resilience and
                              performance but it would need to regularly poll the SoR for
                  Cache
                              changes. e.g. MS3 writes to the SoR, MS2 doesn't know
   SoR                        about it until it polls. This is a bit more resilient to SoR failure
                          ▸   This is the pattern used in a previous assignment




                                                                                                     188
                                                                                                                    Public internet                       Virtual machine
                                                                                                                    Azure private network                 Application container
                                                                                                                    Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                          Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                                                                                                                 Container port number
                                                                           80 / 443
                                                                                                                                                                 Application port number
            public IP:                                                     kong
            private IP:                                                     8445


                            /categories                                                /moderate                                         /categories
                            /question/:category                                                     /categories                          /submit
                                                                                                                                         /docs


                      4000                                               4100                                            4200

                                                                  moderate                 submitted question         submit
                   question               /categories
                      3000                                               3100                                            3200            categories



    4002              4002                                                                  4102                         4201                    4202
 MongoDB           MySQL                                      categories               rmq-admin                   SUBMITTED_QUESTIONS       rmq-admin
    27017             3306                  mysql                                           15672                        5672                     15672
                                             vol
                                                                                                                  public IP:
                                                                                                                  private IP:
                      4001                                                      4101
                                                moderated questions
mongo
 vol
                          etl                                             MODERATED_QUESTIONS


                      3001                                                      5672

            public IP:                                                public IP:
            private IP:                                               private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                           189
                                                                                                              Public internet                                          Virtual machine
                                                                                                              Azure private network
Event-driven
                                                                                                                                                                       Application container
                                                                                                              Docker private network
                                                                                                                                                                       Rabbitmq combined container



                                                                  80 / 443                                                                                                    Container port number
                                                                                                                                                                              Application port number
public IP:                                                            kong
private IP:
                                                                          8445


                   /types
                                                                                     /types                                                  /types
                   /joke/:type                                                       /moderate                                               /submit
                                                                                     /moderated                                              /docs

                4000
                                               public IP:                                                   public IP:
                joke                           private IP:                                                  private IP:

                3000
                                                            4100                                                        4200

                                                       moderate                                                  submit
       4002     4002                                        3100                           types                        3200                           types
  MongoDB      MySQL

                                                moderated   type_update                                                        type_update
       27017    3306
                                                                            submit                             submit
                                  mysql
                                   vol


                                                                                                   5672                                                        15672
                4001
                                 moderated
mongo
                etl                                                                       RabbitMQ Broker                                              rmq-admin
 vol
                             type_update                                                           5672                                                        15672
                3001

public IP:                                   public IP:
private IP:                                  private IP:
                                                                                                                                                                                                        190
RabbitMQ message broker recap
▸   Let's create an event driven architecture using RabbitMQ
▸   A broker is an intermediary between the message producer and message consumer - like post-office
     ▹    Asynchronous pattern - producer doesn't wait for the consumer to acknowledge. Contract is with the broker
     ▹    Loose coupling between producer and consumer
     ▹    Consumer can consume from the queue in its own time - queuing smooths spikes to prevent consumer overload
     ▹    Supports single queue one producer to one consumer
     ▹    Supports publisher / subscriber message distribution with multiple subscribers to the same messages
     ▹    Generally pushes data from the broker to the consumer
     ▹    Generally message deleted from the queue when the consumer acknowledges receipt of the message
     ▹    RabbitMQ is resilient as can run a cluster of brokers so caters for failure of one or more nodes




                                                                                                                      191
    Asynchronous Event-driven approach                                                                                   Build PC
                                                                                                                        Components
▸   Simple use-case: add components to a list with no                                                                      list
    duplicates. All services informed of new entries
▸   User sends data to MS2
▸   MS2 updates the SoR (MS1) via a queue
▸   Message pattern is Asynchronous point-to-point
▸   MS1 decides if it should update the SoR and if so,
    creates an update event with the data                        MS1                     MS2                             MS3
▸   Event is published (to an exchange in RabbitMQ)
                                                           SoR                                           Cache                        Cache

▸   MS2 and 3 subscribe to their queue
▸   Queues push the event to each of MS2 and MS3
▸   They update their local cache with event data
                                                                       submitted_component
▸   The data reaches eventual consistency
▸   This arch pattern is called "Event-Carried State
    Transfer" (ECST) using pub-sub messaging
                                                                        E
▸   Users access data from cache so quicker                             x
                                                                        c
▸   System is resilient if SoR or any microservice fails                h
                                                                        a
                                                                              app2_new_component_event

▸   Data transfer loosely coupled in both directions                    n
                                                                        g
                                                                        e     app3_new_component_event
▸   An alternative to RabbitMQ is Kafka                                                                      Event / Message Broker

▸   Clearly more complex than point to point but more
    resilient to failure of one or more microservices                                                                                     192
Detailed architectural diagram
                                                                             PC Components service




VNet: 10.0.0.0/16


 Apps subnet: 10.0.1.0/24                                                                            Other stuff subnet: 10.0.2.0/24
                                1       2               1       3               1

                                                                                                     e.g. Bastion Host
                     172.167.163.220            172.167.65.83        51.142.201.18

                    App1 microservice       App2 microservice       App3 microservice
                    System of Record          Data Source             Nothing much

                     Priv IP:10.0.1.4        Priv IP:10.0.1.5        Priv IP:10.0.1.6
                     Port: 4001, 22          Port: 4002, 22          Port: 4003, 22
                                                                                                                      Event List
                            Master Data             Cache Data              Cache Data               1    submitted_component

                                                                                                     2    new_component_event
                    2                   1   2                   1       2
                                                                                                                     API List
                                                                                                      1   GET /components
              RabbitMQ: 172.166.194.145
                                                                                                      2   GET /killme
              Priv IP: 10.0.1.7
              Ports: 5672, 15672, 22                                                                      POST /component
                                                                                                      3



                                                                                                      Demo: /architecture/rabbitPubSubEvents
                                                                                                                                               193
▸   "Thick" or "fat" events, carry all the data (state). Used in "Event-Caried State Transfer" architectural
    pattern to update subscribers to the event and its state
▸   Thick event benefits include
     ▹    Potentially lower latency as no additional API call to get data as it's all in the event
     ▹    Asynchronous so provides loose coupling and hence more resilience to failure
     ▹    Producer does not need to scale as more consumers are added


▸   Challenges
     Likely not a practical solution when integrating to legacy without lots of nugatory legacy improvement
     All data is always sent even if not all subscribers want all the data so network and broker load can be increased
     Load on the broker has increased so that needs to be considered




                                                                                                                         194
Thick and Thin events
▸   A "thin" event only carries a small data package such as time of the event and some sort of ID to identify the event.
    The data payload is not sent with the event. This approach is used in "Event Notification" pattern
     ▹    producer publishes an event indicating that something happened, maybe also an ID and timestamp
     ▹    state, i.e., the data, requires consumers to query the producer to obtain the data, typically via an API call
▸   Thin event benefits include
     ▹    less data transferred via the broker
     ▹    consumer can ask for whatever data it needs from one or more APIs rather than take all of it
     ▹    popular for legacy monolithic systems that don't support thick events but do have API functionality
▸   Challenges of thin events
     ▹    Synchronous API call adds tight coupling so reduces resilience
     ▹    Slower as an event is processed then the API is called
     ▹    APIs can suffer due to concurrent burst-type requests from subscribers requesting data on receipt of the event


▸   Both patterns are valid depending on the use case. If consumers can tolerate synchronous dependence on a
    producer, thin messages or synchronous calls may be preferable; whereas fat events are better suited to
    asynchronous, decoupled integration where resilience and autonomy are prioritised e.g. distributed systems

                                                                                                                            195
Kafka
▸   Popular open source event-based pub / sub streaming application
     ▹    Developed by Linkedin to track user activity on its platform
     ▹    It's now been made open source as part of the Apache foundation and managed by Confluent
     ▹    Very popular in event driven microservice architectures
     ▹    Used by Netflix, Spotify, Uber, LinkedIn, Twitter and many other well-known enterprises
     ▹    As in RabbitMQ, Kafka uses producer/consumer model and supports prod/cons and pub/sub message (event) pattern
     ▹    In principle it is very similar to RabbitMQ but is functionally different in that is uses persistent logs instead of queues


▸   It captures and stores events
     ▹    Events such as IoT sensor data, Web-site click stream, track and monitor delivery vehicles etc., are captured in real-time into a
          log - i.e. append-only read-only storage so maintains sequence and can't be changed
     ▹    As in MQ, there can be multiple producers and multiple consumers
     ▹    Anyone interested in the Payments topic would subscribe to that topic
     ▹    Events are stored however you want, text, xml, whatever as data is serialised like in MQ




                                                                                                                                              196
▸   Kafka is a distributed application
     ▹    Fault tolerant, horizontally scalable, enables parallel processing across multiple nodes
▸   Kafka and Queue key differences
     ▹    A basic queue has one producer. Kafka can have multiple producers as can MQ by using an exchange
     ▹    A basic queue has one consumer. The queued message is deleted once read. Kafka can have many subscribers (consumers
          in Kafka Speak) to the same topic because reading the data doesn't cause it to be deleted (removed from the queue) as data
          is not deleted once read; Kafka events are persisted. A bit like reading an array or file using a pointer for each consumer
     ▹    Kafka data retention can be set from minutes through to infinity, by default 1 week, or by storage size
     ▹    Unlike RabbitMQ which can be configured as a priority queue, Kafka stores events / messages as an immutable append log -
          i.e. in the order in which they come in is maintained
     ▹    Kafka consumers have an index into the log (basically a file pointer) which increments as they read messages. If they need to
          go back, they can change the read index on the log - basically like accessing and reading a log file
     ▹    Rather than replicating data in a one queue per subscriber, Kafka has one copy of the events and subscribers read the events
          using their own offsets into the event stream
     ▹    Kafka supports data streaming. e.g. data can be streamed in through a "Kafka connect" connector to a streaming data source
          such as a click stream, IoT, video etc. The stream can be processed by a consumer, then output to another topic which is
          streamed back out through "Kafka stream". e.g. IoT data streams in, the consumer processes it in real time, event by event,
          and streams the output through another topic to real time analytics service or whatever
     ▹    You can add whatever events you want to a topic from multiple producers, the consumers will filter on what they want to see
          based on a key of some sort, e.g., customerID
                                                                                                                                          197
 Prod 1
                     orders.created                                                               Topic 5
     Topic 1     0     1      2       3    4   5   6   7   8   9          0       1       2       3       4       5       6       7


               orders.updated

     Topic 2     0     1      2       3    4   5   6   7                                                              http

               payments.processed

     Topic 3     0     1      2       3    4   5   6   7   8   9
                                                                                                  Topic 6

                                                                              0       1       2       3       4       5       6       7

     Topic 4     0     1      2       3    4   5   6   7   8
                      email.send-request                           http
ordersMS

returnsMS




                                                                                                                                          198
▸   The example showed a single topic partition - there are various options to improve performance and resilience
▸   When a cluster is created you can specify the number of partitions (previous discussion was one), say we want 3
▸   The producer will provide a key, say a user ID. Kafka will hash that to choose the partition: p=hash(key) % 3
▸   This ensures strict ordering of users or products or whatever based on a key this enables parallel processing
▸   A Kafka cluster can support any number of topics. Linkedin has 10s of thousands of topics, millions of partitions

                                                      Orders topic
                                                      Key = ProdID
                                                                                 Parallel
                                                                                 process
                                                                                  orders


                                                             H
                                                               r
                                                             a
                                                               o
                            One or more producers            s
                                                               u
                            from order microservice          h
                                                               t
                                                               e
                                                             &




▸   Events are not pushed by the broker as in RabbitMQ, a consumers polls the partition - this sounds inefficient but …
▸   A subscriber tries to fetch data. If there is none, it can deliberately block until there is data then it is returned
▸   It can also request a return only when a specified number of events have landed
▸   So we need to use JavaScript async calls or Java threads
                                                                                                                            199
MQ and Kafka basic comparison
Feature            Kafka                                                        RabbitMQ

Primary Role       Distributed event streaming platform                         Message broker for reliable messaging



Message Storage    Persistent log (messages retained for a configurable time)   Transient - messages deleted



Ordering           Guaranteed. No prioritisation                                Guaranteed but can be config for priority queue - prod can set a priority level


Replay             Supported (consumers can re-read old events)                 Not supported after ack


Throughput         Extremely high (millions of messages/sec)                    Lower than Kafka, optimized for reliability (uses ack for pub and sub)


Consumer Scaling   Consumer groups to partitions for parallel processing        Multiple queues or competing consumers on one queue - e.g. round robin


Protocol           Custom (binary)                                              AMQP (Advanced Message Queuing Protocol)


Serialization      Opaque byte arrays                                           Opaque byte arrays




                                                                                                                                                                  200
Summary of patterns
Messaging and architectural patterns
▸    Request–Response: Synchronous. Caller waits for a reply. Tight coupling. Not formally a message pattern
      ▹     Typical tech: HTTP, REST, gRPC
▸    Point-to-Point Asynchronous Messaging: One message, one consumer. Asynchronous. Message lives in a queue. Loose coupling
      ▹     Typical tech: RabbitMQ queue, Azure Service Bus Queue, AWS Simple Queueing Service (SQS)
▸    Publish–Subscribe Messaging: Typically, one message many subscribers. Asynchronous. Loose coupling. Subscribers receive
     independent message copies
      ▹     Typical tech: Kafka topics, RabbitMQ fanout/topic exchanges
▸    Event Notification: Event signals that something happened. Carries minimal data (e.g. ID only - thin event). Consumers typically calls
     synchronous API for state so creates tight coupling
▸    Event Streaming: Continuous sequence of events. Replayable so ordering matters
      ▹     Typical tech: Kafka, Amazon Event Hubs, AWS Kinesis
▸    Event-Carried State Transfer: How a distributed system propagates state between services without creating runtime coupling.
     Typically uses pub-sub pattern but not a requirement. Event carries the state (thick / fat events) - no callback needed
▸    Event-driven architecture: Components react to events, are loosely coupled, asynchronous, usually using pub/sub messaging


▸    Good Kafka intro video here: https://youtu.be/QkdkLdMBuL0


                                                                                                                                              201
Subnets & Bastion Host
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you will be able to:
     ▹    Create subnetworks
     ▹    Explain the benefit of subnetworks
     ▹    Explain an architectural need for subnetworks
     ▹    Create subnetwork security rules
     ▹    Create a bastion host in the Azure portal to work with last week's demo or any VMs to enable admin access
     ▹    Explain the purpose and properties of a Bastion host
     ▹    SSH into any VM using redirects from the SSH config file
     ▹    Explain virtual network peering
     ▹    Peer two virtual networks across different regions




                                                                                                                      203
Could use Kafka here
                                                                             PC Components service




VNet: 10.0.0.0/16


 Apps subnet: 10.0.1.0/24                                                                            Other stuff subnet: 10.0.2.0/24
                                1       2               1       3               1

                                                                                                     e.g. Bastion Host
                     172.167.163.220            172.167.65.83        51.142.201.18

                    App1 microservice       App2 microservice       App3 microservice
                    System of Record          Data Source             Nothing much

                     Priv IP:10.0.1.4        Priv IP:10.0.1.5        Priv IP:10.0.1.6
                     Port: 4001, 22          Port: 4002, 22          Port: 4003, 22
                                                                                                                       Event List
                            Master Data             Cache Data              Cache Data               1     submitted_component

                                                                                                     2     new_component_event
                    2                   1   2                   1       2
                                                                                                                      API List
                                                                                                      1    GET /components
              RabbitMQ: 172.166.194.145
                                                                                                      2    GET /killme
              Priv IP: 10.0.1.7
              Ports: 5672, 15672,22                                                                        POST /component
                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                         Demo: /architecture/rabbitPubSubEvents
                                                                                                                                                  204
3-tier architecture
Client


                             ▸   If each tier runs on a VM, in Azure the default is:
                      VNet        ▹     Put all VMs in the same VNet - typically 10.0.0.0/16

              Web Server          ▹     Allocate public and private IP addresses to all VMs
               Apache             ▹     Allocate NSG to each VM
                nginx
                             ▸   All are exposed to the internet via IP & network so easy targets
              App Server          ▹     So remove the public IPs of the app server and database
                Node              ▹     But now we can't access them for OS updates etc
                Java
                                  ▹     If a hacker gets through a vulnerability in the web server, they can
                                        access the app server and DB by guessing private IP addresses,
               DB Server                but the "gold" is in the database tier
                MySQL
                Mongo             ▹     Each VM has an NSG so could limit access. e.g. App server only
                                        allows http traffic from private IP 10.0.0.5 and only open port 3000
                                  ▹     That works, but if we scale either tier, we have to deal with IPS




                                                                                                               205
subnet isolation in 3-tier architecture
Client




                          VNet   ▸   We may have many VMs if we scale the solution so many NSG
                                     rules need to be set if left at the VM level
                   Web public
                                 ▸   Use sub-networks and attach an NSG to the sub-net
                                      ▹     All rules apply to all resources in the subnet
                                      ▹     Set rules to only allow traffic from specific subnet
                                 ▸   Great. But we still can't access the VMs for admins in the App
                   App private       or DB tier as there are no public IPs
                                 ▸   And, we don't really want admin access via the web tier even
                                     through port 22 as anyone in the world can reach it and have a
                                     go at trying to get through
                                 ▸   Although a microservice is not strictly a 3-tier architecture, it is
                   DB private
                                     composed of multiple tiers, API routing, business logic and data
                                     so can be protected in the same way using subnets and NSGs




                                                                                                            206
Bastion Host (Jump host or Jump box)
▸   We need a solution to securely provide admin access to our VMs
▸   A bastion or jump box is used by system admins and maybe engineers to access VMs on a private network
▸   Modern fully cloud-native and zero-trust architectures are diverging from traditional bastion hosts, but bastion hosts
    remain widely used and are still popular in many cloud and hybrid environments and very much for on-prem
▸   The Bastion is exposed to the internet as a single entry-point for administered machines
▸   It is the only system component accessible to SSH (or RDP) from outside the private network
▸   The assumption is that this VM WILL be attacked so it is hardened, monitored and limited functionality
     ▹    Hardened means, removing non-essential software, including in the OS, closing all ports other than SSH, all non-essential
          services, no root login via SSH, limited users, password authentication disabled (must use key), admin IP whitelist
     ▹    Basically, hardening is the deliberate removal of trust, functionality, and exposure until only what is essential remains
▸   All VMs not needing internet access (e.g. web server, API Gateway do) do not have public IP addresses
▸   Firewall / NSG limit access only from the Bastion host for admin traffic e.g. ssh on port 22
▸   Bastion is placed in its own subnet
▸   Reduces the attack surface but does provide a "Once in you can access all" so needs protection
     ▹    Intrusion detection
     ▹    Suspicious behaviour alerts
     ▹    Command and user access auditing
     ▹    Does not store private keys - simply forwards SSH to the target system
                                                                                                                                      207
Add a Bastion
                                                                             PC Components service




VNet: 10.0.0.0/16


 Apps subnet: 10.0.1.0/24                                                                            Other stuff subnet: 10.0.2.0/24
                                1       2               1       3               1

                                                                                                     e.g. Bastion Host
                        172.167.194.0           172.167.65.83        51.142.201.18

                    App1 microservice       App2 microservice       App3 microservice
                    System of Record          Data Source             Nothing much

                     Priv IP:10.0.1.4        Priv IP:10.0.1.5        Priv IP:10.0.1.6
                     Port: 4001, 22          Port: 4002, 22          Port: 4003, 22
                                                                                                                      Event List
                            Master Data             Cache Data              Cache Data               1    submitted_component

                                                                                                     2    new_component_event
                    2                   1   2                   1       2
                                                                                                                     API List
                                                                                                      1   GET /components
              RabbitMQ: 172.166.194.145
                                                                                                      2   GET /killme
              Priv IP: 10.0.1.7
              Ports: 5672, 15672, 22                                                                      POST /component
                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                       208
                                                                       PC Components service                                   Admin

 Add peering
                                                                                                                                                          NSG rules

VNet: 10.0.0.0/16 London UK South                                                                                                              Bastion NSG
                                                                                                                                               Dir: Inbound
                                                                                                                                               Source: public IP (x.x.x.x/32)
 Public subnet: 10.0.0.0/28                         170.17.65.80                                                                               Protocol: TCP
                                                    API Gateway                                                                                Dest port: 22
                                                   Priv IP:10.0.0.8                                                                            Dest addr: 10.0.0.0/28, 10.0.1.0/24
                                                   Port: 80, 443, 22                                                                           Action: Allow
                                                                                                                                               Public admin ->bastion
                                                                                                                    VNet: 10.1.0.0/16
                                                                                                                    Wales UK West
                                                                                                                                               API Gateway NSG
                                                                                                                                               Dir: inbound
 Apps subnet: 10.0.1.0/24                                                                                              Bastion subnet:         Source: Internet (0.0.0.0/0)
                                  1      2               1       3                           1
                                                                                                                       10.1.2.0/27             Protocol: TCP
                                                                                                                                               Dest ports: 80,443
                         172.167.194.0           172.167.65.83                     51.142.201.18                           51.142.201.18       Action: Allow
                                                                                                                                               anywhere->Kong
                    App1 microservice        App2 microservice                   App3 microservice                          Bastion Host
                                                                                                            Peer
                    System of Record           Data Source                         Nothing much                               No apps          Apps subnet NSG
                                                                                                                                               Dir: inbound
                      Priv IP:10.0.1.4        Priv IP:10.0.1.5                    Priv IP:10.0.1.6                        Priv IP:10.1.2.4     Source: 10.0.0.0/28 (API GW)
                      Port: 4001, 22          Port: 4002, 22                      Port: 4003, 22                              Port: 22         Protocol: TCP
                                                                                                                                               Dest ports: 4001-4003,22
                                                                                                                                               Action: Allow
                              Master Data            Cache Data                          Cache Data                                            Kong->Microservices

                                                                                                                                               Dir: inbound
                     2                   1   2                   1                   2                                                         Source: 10.1.2.0/27 (API GW)
                                                                                                                                               Protocol: TCP
                                                                                                                                               Dest ports: 4001-4003,22
                                                                                                                                               Action: Allow
             RabbitMQ: 172.166.194.145                                                                                                         Kong->Microservices
             Priv IP: 10.0.1.7
             Ports: 5672, 15672, 22
                                                                                                                                               All outbound use the defaults
                                                                                                                                               as we can send outbound
                                                                                                                                               traffic anywhere
                                                                                                      Demo: /architecture/rabbitPubSubEvents
                                                                                                                                                                                209
Infrastructure as Code
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this work, you should be able to:
     ▹   Explain the term "Infrastructure as Code" and its benefits
     ▹   Demonstrate an awareness of various IaC approaches
     ▹   Explain imperative and declarative programming and when you may use one over the other
     ▹   Explain the key benefits of Terraform over other approaches
     ▹   Explain the key components in Terraform such as resources and provisioners
     ▹   Explain a given piece of terraform code
     ▹   Explain the concept and benefits of a CI/CD pipeline and general code deployment automation
     ▹   Deploy infrastructure using Terraform




                                                                                                       211
Basic infrastructure
▸   Creating a VM / EC2 from the portal seems so easy. But a lot
    goes on in the background and various defaults are used; this is
    ok for experimenting but not in real design:
     ▹    A VM type and size needs to be specified
     ▹    A VM OS image needs to be specified
     ▹    We need a system disk for the VM image
     ▹    We need a network within which our VM can communicate
     ▹    VM needs a network Interface Card for network connection
     ▹    We need firewall to allow only ports we are using
     ▹    We need a sub-networks for efficiency and security
     ▹    VM needs a private and public IP address
▸   All this gets created using defaults and you can see them in the
    resource group, but for automated deployment and system
    design control, we need to specify these things




                                                                       212
Deleting resources
▸   If you choose to delete all the resources, say to save cost, then you want to recreate them again
     ▹    Azure: delete the resource group - simply deletes all resources in the group. Thay may not be what you want.
     ▹    AWS: you need to remember all the resources and manually delete each one
     ▹    To recreate, you need to go through all the console steps again - imagine a more complex architecture
▸   Organisations need to automate the creation and destruction of their architecture and code deployment
▸   Cloud providers enable various ways of creating, managing and destroying resources programmatically
     ▹    Software Development Kit: use your favourite programming language - e.g. call a function to create a VM
     ▹    CLI: install the command line interface which provides various functions - e.g. to create a VM
     ▹    Use a shell / batch script to execute command line commands imperatively
     ▹    Use the cloud provider's built-in shell e.g. cloud shell to issue command line commands
     ▹    Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates for declarative IaC
                 e.g., In resource manager | Export template creates a reusable template of your infrastructure
     ▹    AWS CloudFormation templates for declarative IaC
     ▹    Use third party software such as Terraform which is cloud provider agnostic declarative approach
▸   I've posted a couple of videos showing CLI and template approach. We will stick to industry approach of Terraform
                                                                                          Videos: Azure CLI IaC and Azure templates


                                                                                                                                      213
                         Azure basic infrastructure example
              Internet



                                     Internet gateway


  demo-vnet 10.0.0.0/16



demo-subnet                                               example_subnet
10.0.1.0/24                                               10.0.2.0/24

                          demo-nsg



                         demo-nic              demo-pip

                   demo-vm1
                  Standard_B1s

                                       os_disk




                                                                           214
                         Azure basic infrastructure example
              Internet

                                                              main.tf         terraform                         cloud provider
                                     Internet gateway


  demo-vnet 10.0.0.0/16


                                                                           terraform.tfstate
demo-subnet
10.0.1.0/24

                          demo-nsg
                                                          ▸     terraform init - check which provider then download plugin
                                                          ▸     terraform apply
                         demo-nic
                                                                  ▹     Builds dependency graph
                   demo-vm1                    demo-pip           ▹     Checks for changes in state
                  Standard_B1s
                                                                  ▹     Deletes and creates resources as required
                                       os_disk
                                                          ▸     terraform destroy - all resources in state destroyed


                                                                              demos/terraform/Azure/minimal_vm/main.tf

                                                                                                                                 215
Terraform
▸   Just to do something relatively simple such as create a vm is messy using command line and scripts
▸   In industry we need more control of the infrastructure than using defaults
▸   We need reliable repeatable and maintainable automation
▸   Use something like Terraform - which is probably the most popular approach (not perfect but what is)
     ▹    Declarative so you don't need to worry about the creation order (usually)
     ▹    Don't need to wait for resource creation to move on e.g. to get IP as it is declarative - it will do it
     ▹    Only one language to learn for any cloud provider - HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL)
▸   Terraform is a module in its own right, so just an intro here due to its importance in industry
▸   None of us can remember all the commands of all the tools we use so use documentation
     ▹    AWS: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs
     ▹    Azure: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs
▸   Terraform app is available at:
     ▹    https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install
     ▹    Choose AMD64 - latest version for Windows

                                                                                                                    216
Initial key components
▸   Configuration file
     ▹     One or more .tf files containing Terraform code. Primary file typically called main.tf
     ▹     Used to define terraform "things" like vm, nsg or whatever
     ▹     This is a declarative as opposed to imperative approach - we declare the outcome and let it work out how to do it
▸   Provider
     ▹     Defines plugin to connect to provider's API to construct & manage resources based on the declarative Terraform code
▸   Resource (thing)
     ▹     Represents resource components such as VM, Storage, Network etc
     ▹     Consists of:
               ▹   Resource type: e.g. "aws_instance" for an AWS ec2, "azurerm_virtual_machine" etc. These are defined by the provider's API
               ▹   Resource name: a unique name for you to refer to in code. i.e., like a constant
               ▹   Args and Attributes: configuration detail for a specific resource. e.g. instance_type = "t2.micro",

▸   Variable
     ▹     Like parameters passed into the file or between blocks within the file similarish to function parameters
     ▹     Input variables: pass in values from cli, env vars or a variables file to, say, config a resource - e.g. VM type
     ▹     Local values: used within the code to reduce repetition - like constants
     ▹     Output values: extract values from configurations for display or pass into other config files - a bit like function return values
     ▹     Various types: string, number, bool, list (like array), map (like json object)
                                                                                                                                               217
Create a VM
▸   It seems complicated but think about it as being like building a computer, connecting components
▸   Script is reusable
▸   Can build or destroy all the components with a single command
▸   Declarative, like in docker compose, so create a target state
▸   Terraform creates a state file that holds the exact configuration created so it can be used to delete too
     ▹    The state file will appear once you build something and is called terraform.tfstate
     ▹    Terraform refers to this when you change something - may not have to rebuild everything
▸   Note: For first use, switching providers, switch directories and various other scenarios, you need:
     ▹    terraform init
     ▹    The environment will usually tell you if you need to do this. It will download a provider .exe file to use as the
          API integration point to the cloud provider. So you will see a new folder appear: .terraform
     ▹    A new file appears: .terraform.lock.hcl this is used to ensure that the exact version of the provider used to
          create infrastructure is used in the future. e.g. if a team works on the same project, this file would be shared.
          Like the package-lock.json file
▸   terraform apply will execute code in the main.tf file - in fact all the .tf files in the current directory
▸   terraform destroy will delete everything defined in the state file
                                                                                                                              218
Variables
▸   Don't hard-code properties such as image and instance type, use in and out variables. Generally, store in variables.tf
▸   variable "machine_type" {
     description = "Azure Virtual machine"
     type        = string
     default     = "Standard_B1s"
    }

▸   Variable name machine_type. This is initialised to Standard_B1s unless a non-default value is passed
▸   A variable value can be passed in from a file with terraform.tfvars extension or at the command line during apply
▸   This approach promotes code reuse. In terraform.tfvars:
     ▹     machine_type = "Standard_B2s" This overrides the default B1s
▸   Here, the var instance_type is not fixed but assigned the value of machine type. If not provided, it defaults to
    Standard_B1s. Defaults are optional and often not desirable. Generally best to specify what is used
▸   You could have different .tfvars files say for dev and test, e.g. dev.tfvars, test.tfvars set to different values. Just
    provide the name of the file on the command line during apply
▸   Output variables can be added to a default file output.tf if required or left in the main.tf file - they all get combined
    during an apply



                                                                                           /demos/terraform/azure/using variables

                                                                                                                                    219
                                                                                  API
                      main.tf                   terraform                                cloud provider




                    variables.tf            terraform.tfstate




                  terraform.tfvars



▸   Terraform apply: values in .tfvars are copied into variables in variables.tf
▸   main.tf uses the values in the variables to create the required resources
▸   Terraform creates a state file of resources and dependency map of creation order
▸   Terraform converts the state file into API calls to the cloud provider to create or destroy resources
     ▹     Note: if a change is made and some resources are not affected, the unaffected resource definitions are ignored
▸   Terraform will read the output generated at the cloud end and display progress on the local machine


                                                                                                                            220
▸   For common actions, such as VM creation, code can be structured into modules - like functions
▸   A main.tf references the module by pointing to its location so is really just a file that references one or more modules
    to create a more complex infrastructure without code duplication - similar to main program referencing functions by
    their location
▸   A new main is written for the bigger project, and it will reference modules (modules folders)
▸   Values are passed from main to module (or module to module) in a similar way to calling functions
▸   Main would specify the provider and region which is inherited by modules


                                             main.tf



                                             Modules

       vm-instance-creation                                              create-tcp-ingress


          variables.tf        create-vm.tf             ingress-rule.tf       variables.tf




                                                                                                                               221
Terraform Provisioners
▸   Terraform is an infrastructure deployment application but it is also capable of deploying code
▸   A provisioner enables OS command execution on the client or remote machine and are added to a
    resource block
▸   local-exec provisioner
     ▹    Execute commands on the client machine - e.g. your laptop
     ▹    For example, pipe terraform output to a file instead of cluttering the console
▸   remote-exec provisioner
     ▹    Execute system commands on the remote machine - e.g., Azure VM, AWS ec2
     ▹    e.g. can use to install node, or docker or whatever
▸   file provisioner
     ▹    Securely transfer files from the host to the remote machine - e.g. rather than using scp or winscp manually
▸   Note: as resource blocks are only called when creating the resource, the provisioners are only executed
    during resource creation. e.g. Maybe during a VM creation we want to copy a Docker install script to the
    remote vm and run it to install Docker. That only happens once during VM creation
▸   This is a useful config feature for smaller or test projects, In industry you would more likely use:
     ▹    Ansible, Chef or Puppet

                                                                                                                        222
Terraform null-resource
▸   Provisioners are really handy in executing local or remote commands but they are only executed when
    the resource is being created - i.e. generally once. That's fine for installing Docker


▸   But say we want to automate a file copy if the file changes. E.g. a source code file or compose.yaml file,
    we can't unless we delete a resource and recreate it
     ▹    Resource blocks are only executed when they are created and the provisioners are in there
     ▹    Terraform provides a special "fudge" resource block called a null-resource that doesn't create a resource but
          acts like it does. i.e. it is called once when trying to create a resource, but as it is a null-resource, it creates
          nothing so doesn’t affect the infrastructure, but its provisioners are executed




                                                                                                                                 223
Terraform null resource
 ▸   When terraform apply is executed, terraform compares the current state, held in the state file, to the desired state
     held in .tf files and creates a plan indicating any changes it needs to make
 ▸   Changing the content of a file you want to copy to the vm is not a resource change so will not trigger the file-
     deployment within the resource. A null-resource can deal with this using a trigger

 ▸   resource "null_resource" "copy_file" {
       triggers = {
         file_md5 = filemd5("path/to/local/file.txt")
       }

       provisioner "file" {
         source      = "path/to/local/file.txt"
         destination = "/home/ubuntu/file.txt"

           connection {
             type        = "ssh"
             user        = "tony"
             private_key = file("path/to/private_key.pem")
             host        = azurerm_linux_virtual_machine.demo-vm.public_ip_address
           }
       }

 ▸   The resource block is triggered by some condition and executed. In this case, the file hash is compared to that in the
     state and if different, triggers this resource block so the file provisioner is executed

                                                                                                                              224
CI/CD Pipeline
▸   Modern organisations tend to use a CI/CD approach for software development
▸   Continuous integration (CI)
     ▹    teams use gitlab, or similar, to work independently on parts of a project
     ▹    each would debug and test their code then when ready, merge into a single project ready to test as a whole
     ▹    tests can be automated and a popular approach is test-driven design


▸   Continuous deployment (CD)
     ▹    Automatically deploy tested code into the runtime environment e.g. dev, test, production or whatever
▸   So CI/CD automates testing of new or modified code, and if successful deploys it
     ▹    this enables regular code releases so enables rapid response to changes in business needs
     ▹    reduces the potential for human error in manually transferring and configuring files between environments


▸   There are various CI/CD tools available such as gitlab, Jenkins, GitHub actions, and cloud services
▸   The following demo will use Terraform to:
     ▹    create the target infrastructure
     ▹    create a basic CI/CD pipeline to automate deployment of a previous simple basic app
                                                                                                                       225
Terraform basic CI/CD
                                                            Client


                           localhost:app          localhost:cont                                       remote-ip:cont
   Project Files

                   vscode dev & test        Container
                                                                      Docker hub
                     Local server          Local server




                   Docker compose           App images                                         Remote server




                                           Build images                                    Create infrastructure
                                           Push Images                                   copy script & compose file
                                                                     terraform                 Install Docker
                                                                                                Pull images
                                                                                              Start containers




                                                                           demos/docker/yinYang (public_infra)
                                                                                                                        226
                                                   yinYang with Bastion host
                                Internet



                                                       Internet gateway


                 vnet: yinYang 10.0.0.0/16



                                                      NSG: yinYang                         NSG: jumpbox

                              subnet: yinYang 10.0.2.0/24                                             Subnet: jumpbox 10.0.1.0/29




            NSG rules                                                                                                                   NSG rules
                                            NIC: yinYang             Public IP   NIC: jumpbox               PIP: jumpbox
Inbound                                                                                                                      Inbound
Source addr: 10.0.1.0/29 (jumpbox)                                                                                           Source addr: * (anywhere)
Dest addr: 10.0.2.0/24                      VM: yinYang                          VM: jumpbox                                 Dest addr: 10.0.1.0/29
Src ports: *                               Standard_B1s                          Standard_B1s                                Src ports: *
Dest ports: 22,4000-4001                                                            10.0.1.4                                 Dest ports: 22
Protocol: TCP
                                              10.0.2.4                                                                       Protocol: TCP
                                                               os_disk                                os_disk
Action: Allow                                                                                                                Action: Allow

All outbound use the defaults as                                                                                             All outbound use the defaults as
we can send outbound traffic                                                                                                 we can send outbound traffic
anywhere - e.g. internet to get OS                                                                                           anywhere - e.g. internet to get
updates &Anywhere in Vnet                                                                                                    OS updates &Anywhere in Vnet

                                                                                  demos/docker/yinYang (bastion infra)
                                                                                                                                                                227
Authentication
▸   Terraform needs to login to Azure to do its thing
▸   There are various ways but probably the easiest is to use the Azure CLI
▸   Terraform doesn’t use the CLI to create resources but it can use it to authenticate
▸   Download the cli. For Windows I chose the MSI for 64 bit
▸   You can now also use the CLI instead of Terraform if you want to for quick test builds
▸   az version # check it works
▸   az login # authenticate through browser popup
▸   az account list --output table # get a list of accounts - make sure yours is set to default


▸   az account set -subscription "your subscription number" # get from portal. Search for subscriptions


▸   You should now be able to use Terraform to build Azure infrastructure




                                                                                                          228
Security - TLS
▸   On completion of this section, you should be able to:
     ▹    Explain what base 64 is and the difference between it and base64url
     ▹    Explain the properties, basic operation and use of the following security approaches:
           ▹     Hashing
           ▹     Message Authentication Code
           ▹     Symmetric key encryption
           ▹     Diffie-Hellman key exchange
           ▹     Asymmetric key encryption
           ▹     Digital Signature
     ▹    Explain the properties, basic operation and use of a digital certificate
     ▹    Explain how to request and deploy a digital certificate
     ▹    Explain the chain of trust
     ▹    Explain how the browser uses the certificate to establish trust with the server
     ▹    Create and deploy a digital certificate for an application
     ▹    Explain the TLS handshake process
     ▹    Explain the generation and use of session keys
                                                                                                  230
▸   This is a very broad subject
▸   We will focus only on the underlying principles of Transport Layer Security used to enable https
▸   https enables encryption in transit to provide secure communication
▸   TLS uses the following crypto processes, so we need to study them briefly:
     ▹    Hashing
     ▹    MAC / HMAC
     ▹    Symmetric key encryption
     ▹    Asymmetric key encryption
     ▹    Digital signature
     ▹    Key exchange
     ▹    Digital Certificate




                                                                                                       231
Base 64
▸   Data is a sequence of binary bits
▸   The binary number block is split into 6 bit blocks then stored as
    bytes. i.e. 4 chars in 3 bytes
▸   The 6 bits represent the position in the base64 alphabet where
    'A'=0, 'a'=26, '0'=52, '+' = 62, '/' = 63. Split into 6 bit blocks
▸   Say we have a file of only 4 bytes: D3 FD B6 00

▸   11010011111111011011011000000000
▸   110100 111111 110110 110110 000000 000000
▸   0 / 2 2 A A = = In base 64 -
▸   As the smallest byte sequence to fit 6 bit numbers is 24 bits or 3
    bytes, we need to pad a byte with zeros then indicate how many
    bytes are missing from a 3 byte block. Pad the last byte to create a
    char = A in this case. As we are 2 bytes short of a 3 byte block, we
    add two = to indicate that the last triple has 3 bytes missing
    converting 0/22AA back into binary
▸   Doesn't work with urls as +, / and = are used for other things in
    internet-based data. + is a space and / is a path separator. = means
    = so has been dropped. Because base64-url is used for structured
    data, e.g., JWT, Oauth tokens, URL query parameters etc, the
    receiver knows how to interpret this data as it can be inferred by the
    protocol or an expected number of bytes
                                                                             demo using https://cryptii.com/pipes/hex-to-base64

                                                                                                                                  232
Security Aims of TLS
▸   Confidentiality - no one other than the intended person can read the data - i.e. secret
▸   Integrity - we can be assured that the data has not been interfered with or corrupted
▸   Authenticity - we know for sure who / where the data came from
▸   Non-repudiation - the provider of data cannot claim at a later date that they didn't send it


▸   TLS provides crypto approaches that deal with most of these assurances
▸   TLS doesn't provide non-repudiation but a technique it uses can - we will discuss each
▸   TLS enables us to use https which is security of data in transit through encryption and authentication




                                                                                                             233
Hashing (Integrity)

▸   Fast search
▸   One-way crypto function
▸   Fixed length number (digest)
▸   Use cases include
     ▹   password protection
           ▹      Pa55w0rd : SHA 256=590561E975AA1CBDAA6FF00DA013DFB85656990EEF11E504E9FEBE48A87D3642
           ▹      Can't be reversed but rainbow table may expose the password so still need strong password
           ▹      Brute force attack
           ▹      Use long complex passwords and a password manager
           ▹      Use Single sign-on
           ▹      Use Multi factor authentication
     ▹   file / message integrity check
           ▹      File data integrity, photo steganography



                                                                                                              /demos/crypto/hash.js
                                                                                                                                      234
Message Authentication Code (Integrity and authenticity)
▸   Hashing is good for integrity but not security
▸   MAC fixes this as it adds authenticity as long as the shared secret is kept secure
▸   HMAC is a MAC generated using a hashing function




▸   Cannot provide non-repudiation - I can be assured of who it came from and it's not been tampered with, but what if the sender claims
    they didn't send it, what proof do I have? I have a message and hmac which I could have created myself and claimed it was sent to me



                                                                                                            /demos/crypto/hmac.js
                                                                                                                                           235
Symmetric key encryption (confidentiality)




▸   The same key is used to encrypt as to decrypt
▸   Advanced Encryption Standard is most common
▸   AES has a 128 bit key (can accommodate 192 and 256 bit keys)
▸   AES128 for home routers & https, Bitlocker & Whatsapp use AES256 and NSA approves it for Secret level data
▸   Very fast so good for large data blocks
▸   Challenge: getting the key to the second party securely
                                                                                        /demos/crypto/symmetric.js
                                                                                                                     236
Secure key agreement (not exchange)
▸   Diffie-Hellman is a very popular method of key agreement
▸   Each party creates values that are exchanged and from those values, the secret keys are computed
▸   The beauty of this method is that the secret keys themselves are not exchanged so can't be intercepted
▸   The values which are exchanged, if intercepted, cannot be used to compute the shared secret
▸   If there is a man in the middle attack, they would need to intercept both exchanges and substitute both values
     ▹    To protect against this, the server value also provides a digital signature (later) so the value can't be changed without detection
▸   From the exchanged values, both parties can compute the same value which is the shared secret
▸   Although the shared secret could be used now for encryption, generally create working keys based on these shared
    values as will be seen in TLS later




                                                                                                                                                237
Asymmetric Key Encryption (confidentiality)




▸   Uses a pair of complementary but different keys: private key and public key
▸   Public key is made public
▸   A message encrypted with a public key is decrypted with the secret key - this is used for confidentiality
▸   A message encrypted with the secret key can be decrypted with a public key - not used for confidentiality, it's just a fact
▸   But who sent the encrypted message?
▸   How do we know your public key came from you when we downloaded it or received it in an email? - i.e. someone could claim to be
    Alice, spoof her email and send an encrypted message to Bob using his public key
▸   Complex maths so slow. Not good for large data blocks
                                                                                                  /demos/crypto/asymmetricKeyGen.js
                                                                                                  /demos/crypto/asymmetricEncrypt.js
                                                                                                  /demos/crypto/asymmetricDecrypt.js
                                                                                                                                       238
▸   Popular asymmetric algorithms are RSA and Elliptic curve
▸   RSA (N) where N is the key size
▸   The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) define crypto strength in "bits of security"
     ▹    112 bits is good until about 2030
     ▹    Approximate equivalencies:
           ▹    2048 bit RSA key
           ▹    224 bit ECC key
           ▹    128 bit AES




                                                                                                             239
Digital Signature (authenticity, integrity, non-repudiation)
▸    A digital signature has a wealth of features:
      ▹    More secure alternative to a handwritten signature
      ▹    Guarantees authenticity of the sender
      ▹    Provides non-repudiation - as long as the secret key isn't shared so for legal stuff, use a HSM, smart card or
           similar to hold the secret key
      ▹    Ensures integrity
▸    Bob wants to send me a binding contract of employment
      1.   Bob sends me his public key
      2.   Bob hashes the contract to create a unique number (digest)
      3.   Bob encrypts the digest using his private key
      4.   I receive the email with the plain text contract and the encrypted digest (digital signature)
      5.   I decrypt the digital signature using Bob’s public key to get the hash value (not confidentiality)
      6.   I hash the contract file to get a digest (hash) to check it's the same as Bob's
 ▸   We need a diagram


                                                                                                                            240
Create a Digital Signature




                             /demos/crypto/digitalSig.js
Verify a Digital Signature   /demos/crypto/digitalSigCheck.js

                                                                241
Summary of basic properties
▸   Symmetric keys are the same for encryption and decryption - provides confidentiality
     ▹     Encryption and decryption is very fast
     ▹     Securely getting a symmetric key to the second party is the difficult bit. Diffie-Helman is a popular approach to solving that
           problem as the actual keys aren't exchanged but calculated based on exchanged data
     ▹     Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is popular for symmetric encryption (data in transit and at rest)
▸   Hash can be used for integrity as it is a unique fixed length number very sensitive to data change
▸   MAC / HMAC used to provide security of the hash by mixing in a symmetric key so provides
     ▹     authenticity and integrity
▸   Public key encryption. Keys are a pair and are different: private (secret) and public
     ▹     Public key used to encrypt data for confidentiality
     ▹     Private key used to decrypt confidential data encrypted with public key
▸   Private key encryption can be used to create a digital signature.
     ▹     Provides integrity, authenticity & non-repudiation
     ▹     Digital signature is the equivalent to symmetric key HMAC but better as it can provide non-repudiation
▸   RSA and Elliptic Curve are popular for asymmetric encryption - e.g. digital signature and digital certificates



                                                                                                                                            242
Digital Certificate
▸   We have almost nailed the security using the various approaches and digital signatures are simple, very effective and
    provide three of the security essentials we need: integrity, authenticity and non-repudiation. But we need a public
    key to be able to check the signature. How do we know where that came from?


▸   Digital certificates are the final piece in the puzzle
▸   Digital certs answer the question "Can we be sure that Bob's public key really is Bob's key?"
▸   Bob creates a public key then gets it embedded into a digital certificate by a trusted third party - certification authority
     ▹     Bob needs to provide other info including the domain the certificate will be used e.g. bob.com. This is checked by the CA
▸   The CA, adds Bob's public key and his domain then signs the certificate with its digital signature to validate it
▸   When we want to use Bob's public key, we ask for the certificate. We can check the CA digital signature using the CA
    public key and if ok, we can trust Bob's public key so extract it from the certificate and use it
▸   In https, Bob would store his certificate on the server that is used to provide a service at the certified domain
▸   For practical purposes, there is more than one CA in the world, and the CA can delegate authority to intermediate
    CAs to make the process more manageable. This creates a chain of trust




                                                                                                                                       243
▸   Root certificate
     ▹     A root certificate is self-signed as it must start somewhere. i.e. the CA digitally signs its certificate using its secret key
     ▹     Root certificate authorities are known and trusted by most browsers - installed in OS and browser during updates
▸   Intermediate certificates
     ▹     These can be created from the root and used by delegated organisations to sign user certificates. The lineage of certificate
           signing is held in the certificate
     ▹     Having just a root CA is limiting in that it could be a bottleneck in providing certs and if its secret key is compromised then all its
           certs are worthless, so intermediates are where you tend to get your cert from
     ▹     Intermediate certs and your cert should be installed on the server. The Root cert should be on the client in the OS trusted store


                                                                                                                                                     244
Chain of trust
  ▸   Enter amazon.co.uk into your browser. It is secure by default
  ▸   Click on the padlock (now a different symbol) then certificate
  ▸   Certification path does what it says on the tin




      Self signed root CA                               Intermediate CA   Server Cert   Demo in browser
                                                                                                          245
How to get a certified digital certificate
▸   You need to make a Certificate Signing Request (CSR)
▸   X.509 is the most common standard used
▸   You need to provide information proving who you are, and the details associated to you:
     ▹     Your name – generally the host name of the server you want to use – e.g. your domain tonynicol.com as this is unique to you
     ▹     Organisation – if you have one. This can be verified by the Certification Authority if it is registered
     ▹     Division within the organisation – if relevant
     ▹     City, State/County, Country, Email Address – they may contact you on this
▸   You need to provide verifiable details
     ▹     Depending on the cert type, they may check your domain name provider, your payment provider, email, phone etc.
     ▹     Extended Validation (EV): - Legal business name, Jurisdiction of incorporation, Registration number etc (e.g. digicert.com)
     ▹     Organisational Validation (OV): Organisational details such as verified name, location (e.g. Microsoft.com)
     ▹     Domain Validation (DV): simply prove you own the domain. You could be anyone (e.g. Lancashire.ac.uk)
▸   You create public / private key pair
     ▹     Keep the private key secure and private
     ▹     Public key will be sent to CA in the CSR and will be embedded in the signed certificate



                                                                                                                                         246
Creating a simple DV cert
▸   Domain validation certs are very popular
▸   mkcert is a useful app from mkcert.org
▸   mkcert creates a CA on your client machine which enables you to create your own certificates
▸   mkcert adds itself to the secure vault in the trusted CAs in your OS so any certificates created form it and deployed to
    your server are trusted
▸   Useful for quick local ssh testing. Can use an IP with it in the domain registration
▸   The certs won't be trusted by anyone else's browser but it's good for development and learning
▸   Instructions are available at mkcert.org
▸   Get the app (Window): winget install mkcert
▸   Once we have a CA trusted by our browsers we can create our own certificates
     ▹     mkcert -key-file key.pem -cert-file cert.pem domain
     ▹     this will create key.pem and cert.pem in the current directory. Domain needs to be localhost, 20.117.114.49 or wherever you
           will use the cert. The browser can check the IP it called and compare to this value
▸   If you want to look at the cert in a readable form:
     ▹     certutil -decode cert.pem (on Windows)
     ▹     Check the X509v3 Subject Alternative Name: IP Address:20.117.114.49 or wherever, is correct if you are having problems
▸   We don't add certs into the container, or each container needs one and the secret key is in the image on Docker hub
                                                                                                                   /demos/security/https
                                                                                                                                           247
Creating a let's encrypt real cert
▸   Cannot create a let's encrypt cert using an IP address - you need a domain name
▸   You install certbot on your server then using it in a single command it will
     ▹     Send a server to let's encrypt (LE) server POST request with the domain name you want to register
     ▹     Server receives a token from LE - basically a random string - this is a challenge step
     ▹     Server POSTS back the token and a hash of the public key as a response to the challenge
     ▹     Server POSTS a "Please validate the challenge" to LE
     ▹     LE makes a get request to a web server on your server (typically port 80) asking for the token to check it matches
     ▹     If it matches, certbot creates a key pair and a CSR containing the public key, domain names, and a digital signature proving
           ownership of the private key associated to the public key in the CSR and server sends it to LE
     ▹     LE creates and returns cert.pem, chain.pem (the intermediate cert) and chain.pem (both in one file). We tend to use this one
▸   All that is done for you but you should know the sequence of events behind it
▸   It does create a CSR and it is stored on your server but you never see it unless you look for it
▸   If use digicert or similar, you create a CSR on their web page, add your public key and they send you the certs




                                                                                                                                          248
Transport Layer Security
Algorithm usage in SSL / TLS
▸   Hashing
▸   MAC / HMAC
▸   Symmetric key encryption
▸   Asymmetric key encryption
▸   Digital signature
▸   Key exchange
▸   Digital Certificate




                                250
Reminder: How does the browser trust your certificate?




                                                         251
   Client                  TLS handshake                  Server
 TLS Version
 Random Num
 Session ID
 Cipher Suite
                                 Client Hello
 Compression
 Extensions

                                                         TLS Version
                                                         Random Num
                               Server Hello &            Session ID
                                                         Cipher Suite
                                Public param             Compression
                                 Exchange                Extensions
                                                         Certificates
                                                         DH pub param
                                                         Server Done


Check certificates
Creates symmetric PM key

Client pub param or PMS
Change Cypher                Client Key Exchange
Encrypted finished

                                                   Create symmetric keys

                                                   Change Cypher
                            Handshake Complete     Encrypted finished


                                                                           252
Symmetric session key generation
                        Pre-master secret, "master secret“, ClientHello.random + ServerHello.random




                                                     PRF (Pseudo Random Function)   Pre-master key now securely deleted from client and server



                                                       Master secret (48 bytes)



                         Master secret, “key expansion”, ClientHello.random + ServerHello.random)

                                                                                    Call multiple times to get enough bytes for all four session keys
                                                                                    e.g. 4 x 32 bytes for AES 256. This example generates four x 10
                                                    PRF (Pseudo Random Function)    byte keys for simplicity



     12AF349DD8ABBE73486DAB937FA5B3C81A0F6C024BBAC5C662FBA8E9D04CA7F4B274DDB2C87AA3BD2E992AAB34CAAB32



client_write_MAC_key:      Authentication and Integrity check:     12AF349DD8ABBE73486D
server_write_MAC_key:      Authentication and Integrity check:     AB937FA5B3C81A0F6C02
client_write_key:          Message encryption using symmetric key: 4BBAC5C662FBA8E9D04C
server_write_key:          Message encryption using symmetric key: A7F4B274DDB2C87AA3BD

                                                                                                                                                        253
Mutual TLS
▸   mTLS requires mutual authentication
▸   One server A tries to connect to a server B using https.
▸   Server B returns its cert as usual but is also configured for mTLS e.g. in
    Node, requestCert:true in initialisation of the https server
▸   Server B also returns a list of CA certs it holds in a directory or wherever
▸   Server A checks that list to make sure it is a CA that can validate its cert
    and if so, sends its cert to B
▸   Each side checks each others' certificates and if ok, an https session is
    established
▸   i.e. the only difference between TLS and mTLS is that server B tells server
    A it wants its cert by setting requestCert to true and adding a list of CA
    (typically one or a few) and intermediate certs it supports in client-ca.pem
▸   Server A sees the list, checks its cert is trusted by at least one of them,
    then if so, returns its certificate for authentication
▸   All this happens in the same handshake discussed for TLS but with a
    couple of extra steps but technically the same
▸   Typically used system to system on private networks for extra security

                                                                                   254
Cross Origin Resource Sharing
Origins and Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
▸   We work with same origin or cross origin
▸   Origin is scheme://domain:port
     ▹     e.g. http://tonynicol.com:3000 or http://20.234.12.254:3000


Same origin
                                                                                                    Node app
▸   The user makes a request to say http://20.234.12.254:3000/jokes.html                            server &
                                                                                                     express
▸   express.static will return the web page                                                           static

▸   the page requests css with href="jokes.css". No need for origin as browser will
    assume same origin and add the http://20.234.12.254:3000/jokes.css
                                                                                                    Database
▸   page requests javascript with src="jokes.js" using same assumption                               server
                                                                                                                 MySql
▸   With page displayed and formatted, press a button to invoke fetch()
                                                                                                     20.234.12.254
▸   fetch will also assume same origin so we only need fetch('/jokes/general')
▸   You can write fetch('http://20.234.12.254:3000/jokes/general') if you want to
     ▹     As long as the origin is the same as the web page it's fine
▸   fetch() from a different origin is a security issue and is blocked by default
     ▹     page may be infected to point to a different origin to send information from your page

                                                                                                                         256
Cross origin
▸   When we develop APIs, we don't usually provide a front-end
      ▹   APIs are for use by many different users to get or change data
      ▹   They provide their own web front-end
▸   The front-end files are requested from their own web server - API call is cross origin
      ▹   API call is to a different (cross) origin. Blocked by default. Server needs to enable CORS policy
      ▹   Server CORS Policy can include list of origins, http method and various other conditions

                        http://20.234.12.254:3000/jokes/dad                    http://20.234.12.254:3000/jokes/programming?count=20




                                                              Node app                            Apache
                                              Nginx
                                                               server                              HTTP
                                            web server
                                                                (API)                             server


                                          30.14.120.42                                        230.144.12.4

                                                              Database
                                        Company app with       server                      Christmas cracker
                                         Joke of the day                    MySql               print app
                                          Google cloud                                            AWS
                                                               20.234.12.254
                                                              Joke server Azure                                                       257
Cross origin
▸        A better approach is for the communication to go from server to server
▸        Use https and send a pre-agreed bearer token such as an API key in a JWT or Oauth token for authorisation
▸        As the browser is not involved, there is no CORS issue or risk




                                                                                           http://230.144.12.4/index.html
    http://30.14.120.42/index.html




                                                          Node app
                                                           server
                                                            (API)                                                       Apache
                                   Nginx                                                                                 HTTP
                                 web server                                                                             server


                               30.14.120.42               Database                                                  230.144.12.4
                                                           server
                                                                        MySql
                             Company app with                                                                    Christmas cracker
                              Joke of the day              20.234.12.254                                              print app
                               Google cloud                                                                             AWS
                                                          Joke server Azure                                                          258
OpenAPI
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you should be able to:
     ▹    Explain the three types of API documentation approaches
     ▹    Explain when you may choose to use one approach over another
     ▹    Explain the benefits of using the OpenAPI standard documentation
     ▹    Implement OpenAPI documentation and demonstrate its interactivity with the API




                                                                                           260
▸   API documentation is essential, or no one would know how to use your API. There is a standard
    approach to documentation defined by the OpenAPI specification as a project of the Linux foundation
▸   This documentation approach was originally called Swagger until the specification was donated to the
    OpenAPI initiative under the Linux foundation. So OpenAPI maintain the current standard but some of
    the tools used in document creation are called Swagger.


▸   There are three common approaches to API documentation, Design-first, API-first and Code-first - each
    of these results in an OPenAPI specification document (formerly Swagger).
▸   Design-first use-case is more common in large organisations that have many complex APIs. Typically
    used when the business works closely with engineers to create a design that satisfies the business
    requirements either before code is written or potentially to create coding stubs to get a feel as to how the
    interfaces could be used
▸   Below is an example of a graphical tool used to create a class-like diagram of API endpoints. This tool
    can generate an openAPI specification and some boilerplate code




                                                                                                                   261
Design First




               262
API First
▸   The API-first approach is where you formally define your endpoint documentation / contract, using an
    API specification language. There are various approaches but the OpenAPI specification, formally
    Swagger, is the standard so we will look at that
▸   The OpenApi documentation is written in yaml (or json). You can write it in a text editor or use the
    swagger web-based tool
▸   There is an online tool to help to write your specification: https://editor.swagger.io/
▸   We will use YAML as it is claimed to be more readable than JSON and is more popular for this
▸   These specifications could be written by product owners or engineers or ideally both together before
    coding starts




                                                                                                           263
Top Level Elements of an openAPI spec
▸   openapi - version
▸   info – used to inform users and make the API discoverable
▸   servers – a list of servers running the API can run on
▸   paths – a list of endpoints, methods, parameters
▸   components – data entities for reuse
▸   tags – used to group endpoints and other elements together so they appear as a group in the final
    documentation. e.g. users, payments etc
▸   $ref - reference to reusable blocks (components)




                                                                             demos/API/APIfirstAPIdemo/openapi.yml

                                                                                                                     264
▸   Design-first and API-first
     ▹     Better understand the problem up front – a bit like test driven development
     ▹     Parallel development between team members and teams – using something like swagger hub, developers can
           access the documentation as it is created and start generating the code in parallel
▸   The following is a demo of the API first approach which could also be the output from a design-first tool as it is
    basically a YAML document written to the openAPI standard
▸   Load the YAML into https://editor.swagger.io/
▸   This will syntax check and provide the interactive documentation to test the paths
▸   Note the Servers selectable from the YAML servers definition
▸   Note the groups based on the tags: general and people
▸   Note the section for componentised elements, in this case schemas
▸   Note the different POST options built into the YAML file are selectable
▸   Note: your server must be running at the selected domain and port
▸   You can create various outputs. e.g. a static page using generate client html2


                                                                                             demos/APIfirstAPIdemo/app.js

                                                                                                                            265
Code-first API development
▸   With the code-first approach, comments need to be added in swagger (openAPI) YAML style to enable document
    generation from the code comments
▸   This keeps the documentation with the code and enables you to serve up the documentation as an API endpoint
▸   The following demo is of a simple API and the associated openAPI documentation using the code first approach
▸   You (or your organisation) choose the approach
▸   You may find it easier to write your documentation in the openAPI editor an endpoint at a time, then insert it into your
    code as you need to embed your YAML into comment blocks
▸   The demo will explain


▸   Note: in vscode, to select a column, click top left, then shift-alt drag to create multiple cursors
▸   To indent a block: ctrl-]
▸   Set tab size: settings | editor tab
▸   You could argue that this approach makes the code file messy - or a counter argument is that the code and
    documentation are in one place


                                                                                       dev/demos/codeFirstAPIdemo/app.js

                                                                                                                               266
Authentication and Authorisation
Learning Objectives
▸   On completion of this section, you will be able to:
▸   Explain the difference between authentication and authorisation - providing use cases
▸   Explain the construct and use-case of a Json Web Token (JWT)
▸   Explain the difference between base64 and base64url
▸   Provide some key attributes of a JWT when used in authentication and authorisation
▸   Explain at a detailed level, step by step:
     ▹    Authorisation code flow in detail to illustrate , authorisation and authentication using OIDC




                                                                                                          268
First Party Authentication Approach
▸   Authentication is "am I sure you are who you say you are"
▸   Create an account
     ▹    User enters a username and password into an html form to register an account
     ▹    This is posted to the server using https POST
▸   Add the hashed password to a database (maybe salt and pepper)
▸   The user's roles and access authorisation are added to the database if required
▸   User logs in by sending credentials, server creates a hash of the password, searches for user by username, hashes
    the password and checks it against the stored hash
▸   If ok, the server creates a session object with a random session ID, user ID (primary key), roles/permissions and an
    expiry date and time. This is stored in memory or a memory-based database like Redis
▸   Server creates a session cookie to avoid re-authentication during the session
     ▹    Opaque meaning the content is of no value to anyone as no user data is stored in it - it only makes sense to the server
     ▹    Typical opaque session cookie: connect.sid=s:<sessionId>.<signature>;
     ▹    sessionId: random number used by the server to lookup the session object from the database
     ▹    signature: HMAC of the ID for symmetric digital signature. HMAC checked on return for tampering
     ▹    Cookie is returned to client. HTTP headers are set: HttpOnly; Secure; SameSite=Lax
            ▹    HttpOnly: protect from JavaScript. JavaScript cannot access the cookie stored on the browser
            ▹    Secure: only send cookie from client if using https
            ▹    SameSite=Lax: may be provided if necessary to allow get and redirect cross-site but not POST
                                                                                                                                    269
▸   When something is clicked on the page and a request is made to same origin, cookie is sent automatically
▸   Server checks the cookie signature (HMAC) and if ok, retrieves the session object and checks for expiry
▸   If the session has expired (or has been auto deleted), you may want to extend it or redirect to a login page
▸   If not expired, the application code can check the access or role before allowing access to any protected resource
     ▹    e.g. access to a specific API endpoint such as writing to the database or reading specific data
▸   Benefits
     ▹    Nice and simple, full control, no external dependencies
▸   Challenges
     ▹    Need to manage password resets, email verification, MFA, all aspects of credential security, account blocking, audit,
          responsible for any data breach regarding user credentials even if using salted hash as they may be brute forced if the salt is
          known


▸   When there are only a few hundred users, this approach is probably ok. However, when scaled to thousands or
    more, it's a big deal and best left to identity specialist so offload this responsibility to a third party service
▸   Third party authentication and authorisation is very popular with web applications


                                                                                                   Demo: /demos/security/OIDCdemo
                                                                                                                                            270
JSON Web Token
▸   Security Tokens - used by OAuth and OIDC
     ▹    JSON as opposed to SAML XML tokens so simpler - more lightweight
▸   JWT is an open standard
     ▹    (RFC 7519) to securely exchange information using JSON objects
     ▹    It’s an encoded string, which is URL safe (base64url) so no + / = issue with base 64
▸   Token is cryptographically signed, similar to SAML
     ▹    Data is not encrypted so use TLS if you need protection
     ▹    It can be signed using symmetric HMAC or asymmetric RSA or ECDSA (Elliptical curve Digital Signature
          Algorithm)
     ▹    The digital signature algorithm is fed all the base64-url data to calculate the signature
▸   JWT has 3 parts:
     ▹    header - crypto algorithm used
     ▹    payload - plain data. It contains no credentials
     ▹    signature - digital signature. Generally using an asymmetric key method but symmetric is available
     ▹    each is base64url encoded separated by a '.' (full stop)


                                                                                                                 271
Example
▸   Header example:
    {
      "alg": "RS256", # RSA is the asymmetric key type. SHA256 is the hash type for the signature
      "typ": "JWT",
      "kid": "R4HiYLxTu-b_fG3JxKBqZ" # A lookup for the public key needed to decode the signature
    }
▸   Payload example – this is where the claims about an entity (typically a user) are made
    {
      "sub": "1234567890",
      "name": "John Doe",
      "iat": 1516239022
    }
▸   The final part is the signature which is also base64url encoded
▸   Above example JWT would look like this:

▸   eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9
▸   .
▸   eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyfQ
▸   .
▸   SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
                                                                                                    272
A real JWT
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJnaXZlbl9uYW1lIjoiVG9ueSIsImZhbWlseV9uYW1lIjoiTmljb2
wiLCJuaWNrbmFtZSI6InRvbnkiLCJuYW1lIjoiVG9ueSBOaWNvbCIsInBpY3R1cmUiOiJodHRwczovL2xoMy5nb29nb
GV1c2VyY29udGVudC5jb20vYS9BQ2c4b2NKOFcwZ041RG5Xd0JHTlJzSzY0Z2ptNTU0dmE5UjdrSWpJVHVKQ09zS2pT
akE9czk2LWMiLCJsb2NhbGUiOiJlbi1HQiIsInVwZGF0ZWRfYXQiOiIyMDI0LTAyLTE0VDIwOjMxOjI3LjQ2MVoiLCJ
lbWFpbCI6InRvbnluaWNvbEBnbWFpbC5jb20iLCJlbWFpbF92ZXJpZmllZCI6dHJ1ZSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly90b2
55bmljb2wudWsuYXV0aDAuY29tLyIsImF1ZCI6IkV5bkd3T1ROZGhIcEFXYkxzWDN3Y0lBSmUwMlNxaDYzIiwiaWF0I
joxNzA3OTQyNjg3LCJleHAiOjE3MDc5Nzg2ODcsInN1YiI6Imdvb2dsZS1vYXV0aDJ8MTAxNDQ1NzEzOTA0MjkzMzYz
NzYxIiwic2lkIjoiUlJQbG9ZRWt3VHg0aUZPXzg0bGNWazVWIiwibm9uY2UiOiJaWUZhOXd4WkJqR3Fuc1o4Z1BOemZ
mb1NMbUNDQVFOUzdTc2RmeXZNa2NvIn0.X8mJaQpJ5OtEBg7kbE1CHHizdxJ1r4MsKqtFDgNtVVg




                                                                            Demo: jwt.io

                                                                                              273
JWT v JWS v JWE
▸   A confusing number of J things
▸   JWT is effectively an umbrella term for a base64 encoded token
▸   JWT is either a JWS or a JWE
▸   JWS is a JSON Web Signed token as described previously. Signed token but not encrypted
     ▹   Provides integrity, authenticity and non-repudiation due to the signature if using asymmetric keys
     ▹   Has 3 parts as shown previously - each base64 URL encoded
▸   JWE is a JSON Web Encryption token. JWT Payload is encrypted not signed
     ▹   Provides confidentiality
     ▹   Typical use case is application session tokens so they can only be read by the server on decryption
     ▹   Has 5 parts, each base64 url encoded
           ▹    Header: alg that protects the encryption key, enc - encryption algorithm (e.g. A256GCM")
           ▹    encrypted key: if alg=dir, no key (default). Could be shared secret - encrypted with recipient pub key.
           ▹    iv: initialisation vector. A random number used by the encryption algorithm
           ▹    ciphertext: the encrypted payload
           ▹    tag: value created by the encryption algorithm - like an HMAC value
                                                                                                                          274
Claims list
▸    nonce: Number used once. Random number to avoid replay attack. Server can check it hasn't seen it before
▸    alg: Signature algorithm. e.g., HS256=HMAC + SHA256, RS256=RSA + SHA256, ES256=Elliptic curve + SHA256
▸    x5t: X509 certificate thumbprint. Hash of the issuer's / signer's public key. Used to uniquely identify the public key in a compact form
▸    kid: Key ID. Unique identifier for the crypto key used to sign the JWT. i.e. used to find the key in a key vault to use to verify the signature
▸    aud: Audience. Typically, the name of the resource server or services the JWT is intended for
▸    iss: Issuer. Typically, identifier or url of issuer.
▸    iat: Issued at. Num seconds after Unix epoch (Jan 1st, 1970, UTC). i.e. data and time of issue
▸    nbf: Not before. It can be issued before it can be used
▸    exp: When it expires
▸    acct: User account or profile
▸    acr: Authentication Context-class Reference: e.g. low is UN & PW. medium may mean 2fa. Level of auth strength of the process used to create the token
▸    aio: Azure AD object Id. Unique identifier of the user within the Azure AD environment
▸    amr: Authentication methods reference. Authentication methods used during authentication. e.g. pwd, 2fa,otp
▸    appid: UUID of the client that requested the token. 128 bits in 8-4-4-4-12 hex digits format
▸    appidacr: Strength of authentication of the application authentication. Similar to acr but for the app
▸    auth_time: time the user was authenticated
▸    family and given name need no explanation
▸    ipaddr: IP address from where the authentication request came
▸    name.: Name to display - e.g. on a web page. Often given and family name
▸    oid: object ID. UUID of the user object in Azure active directory to identify the user in the directory
▸    onprem_sid: User active directory ID in situations where on-prem AD is synchronised with Azure AD
▸    puid: persistent user ID. Single ID used across multiple accounts
▸    rh: Refresh history. How many times has this been refreshed. Usually at least a number. But this is Microsoft - they don't always follow standards
▸    scp: Scope. Specifies the permissions granted and what actions the app can perform on behalf of the user
▸    signin-state: sign in status. Values vary on ID provider. e.g. pending, success, failure …. kmsi means keep me signed in. Long session or refresh token
▸    sub: Subject. UUID of the subject, typically the user or whatever the token signifies within the scope of the issuer. In this case, Azure AD
▸    tid: Tenant ID. Azure tenancy the user belongs to.
▸    unique_name: Could be unique username, email address or something else
▸    upn: User principal name. Basically, the unique user again.
▸    uti: Token ID. UUID of the token itself
▸    ver: Version of the token format / standard

                                                                                                                                                               275
Authentication and Authorisation
▸   Authentication is "am I sure you are who you say you are"
▸   Authorisation is "once authenticated what are you allowed access to"
▸   The most modern approach to authorisation is Open Authorization (Oauth), now at version 2 so OAuth2
     ▹    Open standard for secure authorisation to protected resource
     ▹    Used JWT to grant access
     ▹    There are various flows (process), we will focus on the popular Authorisation Code Flow
     ▹    Oauth only creates an authorisation token and optionally a refresh token - NOT an authentication token
▸   For authorisation, Auth0 does require authentication but doesn't care how its done but as the process
    does ask for authentication, only minor additions are required to perform authentication as well
▸   OpenIdConnect (OIDC) is a layer on top of OAuth enabling authentication
▸   As OIDC is an enhancement to OAuth, just using OIDC means you are also using Oauth so OIDC can
    be used for authentication and authorisation


▸   I'll talk through the Authorisation code flow and explain how we authenticate as well


                                                                                                                   276
    Prerequisites to Delegated Authentication & Authorisation
▸    An application developer creates an account with an Identity Provider (IdP) such as Auth0 (an Okta
     company) and registers their application to use OAuth2/OIDC flows.
      ▹    Others are available such as Microsoft, Google etc. Same sort of approach

▸    Register your app and provide some details such as:

      ▹    You will be given a URL to direct your server to, to invoke authentication at the IdP

      ▹    You will be provided with a client ID and secret specific to your app s it can authenticate to the IdP

      ▹    You provide a callback URL: which endpoint do you want the IdP to return to your app

      ▹    Maybe provide Logout URL: e.g., goodbye page

      ▹    Choose which additional IdP services you want to provide as options e.g. Microsoft, Google, Github …

▸    Once the app is registered and operational, you can use it to create an identity token which represents
     an authenticated user, and an access token which contains user roles and / or access permissions


                                                                                              Video: create an account with Auth0
                                                                                              Demo: Auth0 account
                                                                                                                                    277
          OIDC Authorization Code Flow
Browser                                           Node app server                             IDp e.g. Auth0




      1
     Access web page

                       If no session, need to authenticate
                                                             2
                  redirected to IdP’s /authorise endpoint         Req authenticate & auth (scope)

      Login or choose IdP
                                                                                                        3

      Enter UN&PW
4


      Want to share?
                                                                                                        5
      Yes or No
6

                                                                               Creds ok. Callback       7

                                              Auth code
                                                                      Request exchange for token
                                                                                                        8

                                                              Access token, ID token (with profile)
                                                       9
                                                                            Optional refresh token
     Add cookie with session ID & return requested page
                                                             10

     Access moderator protected resource
11                                                           If tokens valid & not expired, grant
                                                             access
       Return protected data
                                                             12
                                                                                                               278
OIDC Authorisation Code Flow
▸   1. User requests a protected page so app requires user authentication and maybe profile information (e.g., name, email, photo) to personalise the page
▸   2. The server checks for an existing application session. If none exists, it redirects the user to the Authorisation Server (IdP) using HTTP 302 and a Location
    header pointing to the IdP’s `/authorize` endpoint
▸   The redirect includes: - response_type=code; client_id (issued when the app was registered); redirect_uri (where the IdP should send the user back); scope
    (permissions requested; include “openid” if identity is required) and a couple of additional security values
▸   3. The Authorisation Server displays its login page. The user chooses how to authenticate (username/password, social login, enterprise login, etc.)
▸   4. The user submits credentials. The IdP verifies them, loads the user’s profile, and checks whether the user has previously granted consent for the
    requested scopes
▸   5. If consent has not been granted before, the IdP displays a consent page asking the user to allow the application to access the requested data
▸   6. If the user approves, the IdP records the consent
▸   7. IdP redirects the browser back to the application’s redirect_uri with an authorisation code. If the user denied sharing, the IdP redirects back with an error
▸   8. The application backend exchanges the authorisation code for tokens by calling the IdP’s token endpoint. It sends the code, client_id, client_secret,
    redirect_uri. The redirect_uri enables the IdP to check confirm the created token contains the same URI as that redirected via the browser
▸   9. The IdP returns tokens: - access token (OAuth2); ID token (OIDC, only if “openid” was requested); refresh token (optional, depending on IdP settings)
▸   10. The application validates the tokens (signature, issuer, audience, expiry) and extracts identity information from the ID token. It creates an application
    session and stores the tokens securely (e.g., in a server-side session in memory, Redis or whatever)
▸   11. The application returns the protected page to the user. The browser stores the session cookie automatically
▸   12. When the user later accesses another protected resource, the browser sends the session cookie. The application checks token validity (e.g. expiry) and
    authorisation (roles/permissions) and returns the protected data or an error
▸   If tokens have expired, either: the user is redirected back to the IdP to authenticate again, or, if a refresh token is available, the application uses it to request
    new tokens without user interaction
                                                                                                                         Demo: /demos/security/OIDCdemo
                                                                                                                                                                            279
Summary
▸   Authentication: are you who you say you are
▸   Authorisation: when we know you are who you say you are, what are you authorised to access
▸   OAuth, now at version 2 is an authorisation protocol
▸   Although OAuth2 flow does include authentication, but it doesn't retain any identification data. I.e., using
    OAuth, we don't know who authenticated or when
▸   OpenID connect extends the authorisation capability of OAuth2 to also enable Authentication
▸   Active Directory works within one domain to hold user credentials, resource access and SSO
▸   Active Directory Federation Service enables AD to be accessed across domains using SAML
▸   SAML is an XML file used to securely exchange information between an IdP and an SP across domains
    for authentication - typically using ADFS / AD
▸   OAuth2 is used for delegated authorisation - can be used with SAML and JWT
▸   JWT is a JSON web token used to securely exchange data. Used typically in place of SAML as it's
    lightweight based on simple JSON structure rather than a complex and verbose XML structure




                                                                                                                   280
NoSQL database
Learning objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you should be able to:
     ▹    Explain the difference between a SQL and a NoSQL database
     ▹    Explain the differences between a relational database and a document database
     ▹    Create a MongoDb Mongoose schema, database and collection
     ▹    Create an application server with routes to carry out CRUD operations on a MongoDb collection
     ▹    Explain how http methods can be used to implement CRUD operations
     ▹    View the data in a collection using MongoDb Compass




                                                                                                          282
▸   A NoSQL database is technology that stores data but not in a tabular format
▸   With a structured / relational database, each row has the same number of columns. If you have a million rows and
    want a new column, all million rows will have a new column added whether that makes any sense or not
▸   Tables must have a schema defining the type allowed in each column
▸   The tabular structure is great when you know in advance what your data content will look like and every entry in the
    table needs the same data. i.e. the data is structured
▸   NoSQL databases, data are not stored in a tabular form - more flexible for semi-structured and unstructured data
▸   NoSQL doesn’t mean that you can’t use SQL but not only SQL. Any database that doesn’t store data in a tabular
    form can be considered NoSQL. Popular products currently include MongoDB, Apache Cassandra, Apache Hbase,
    Apache CouchDB, Neo4j, RavenDB, Redis and OrientDB
▸   MongoDB stores data in a JSON-like format. It is a distributed database so has high availability through horizontal
    scaling. This is called a document database
▸   Cloud hosts provide their own proprietary databases and open-source databases with their own support wrapper
▸   I’ll focus on a brief intro to MongDB
▸   Available at https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community for local install. It is available as a container too




                                                                                                                           283
MongoDB
▸   MongoDB is a very popular highly scalable, distributed NoSQL document-based database
▸   Document databases store data in collections which can be likened to tables in a database but not tabular
▸   It stores each item as a document which can be likened to a row in a tabular database but each document doesn’t
    need the same data entries (columns) as in a tabular database. It stores the data in a json-like format

    MongDB Document




    MySQL Table




                                                                                                                      284
▸   MongoDB can be accessed from the command line or from a GUI called compass –
    Mongo equivalent of Workbench
▸   Using compass, use the default connection string: mongodb://localhost:27017 where
    host and port depend on where your mongo instance is
▸   We can use this to view and modify data directly or check if our app has updated data
    correctly. Tip: to sort documents in reverse order in compass, use:
    options | sort | { _id: -1}
▸   You can also try out commands on the compass command line
▸   In a similar way to loading a MySQL database driver for node, there are a few options for
    MongDB too. We will use a package called Mongoose. This provides a driver and an object
    data modelling (ODM) approach to map code to a database
▸   An object relational mapping ORM extension is similar(ish) for relational databases e.g.
    sequelize for node - use JavaScript objects to interact with the database rather than SQL as
    sequelize converts the JavaScript to SQL
▸   MongoDB doesn’t need a schema so you can add pretty much anything. For example: create
    database e.g., junk, create collection e.g., junkCollection, add data. Note MongoDB will
    automatically give you an id, denoted _id, for every document added as the default primary
    key. Each document need not follow a defined structure (see example =>).
▸   However, if you want some structure, an object relational modelling extension can be used,
    we will use Mongoose. This can provide a full or partial schema

                                                                                                   Demo: Quick look at compass
                                                                                                                                 285
▸   In an object data mapping, you define a structure in your code that maps onto the collection. This way
    you can create an object in your code with similar or same names as in the collection, read or write the
    object’s properties reads or writes the object to or from the database collection
▸   Using a ODM, enforces some structure that can be checked and an error generated if you deviate from
    it – if that’s what you want to do of course; you have the choice. If a type is wrong, Mongoose will throw
    an error. If you try to save data and a mandatory property is missing, you get an error
▸   Mongoose provides several functions for interacting with the database. These are here:
    https://mongoosejs.com/docs/
▸   I'll use the local and container versions




                                                                                                                 286
Mongoose Schema
▸    Mongoose requires a schema; a schema lists properties and types that will map to the document in the collection
const bookSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
  author: {
     type: String,
     required: true
  },
  title: {
     type: String,
     required: true
  },
  pages: {
     type: Number,
     required: false
  },
  keywords: {
     type: [],
     required: false
  },
  rating: {
     type: Number,
     required: false
  },
  reviews: {
     type: [
        {
          name: { type: String, required: true },
          comments: { type: String, required: true }
        }
     ],
     default: [] // Can be empty
  }
})                                                                                                                     287
Create a model of the schema
▸   A model is an instance of the schema for a document. i.e. the schema is a definition and the model is an object with
    lots of methods we can use which is based on the schema definition
     const bookModel = mongoose.model('book', bookSchema)
▸   An instance of a model is called a document as it is an object that maps directly onto a collection document. i.e. Write
    to the document object then simply save it into the collection
▸   e.g. bookModel.find() will find all documents in the books collection and return them as an array of model objects.
    That is, the documents with all the methods too. res.json(result) will work out that it needs to access the _doc
    elements of the objects but if you just want the document info, you can use bookModel.find().lean()
▸   const books = await bookModel.find() would return all the documents in the collection in the books array
▸   There are many functions available in Mongoose most of the ones we need are illustrated in the demonstration
    application. For example, you can search for data using regular expressions:
▸   books = await bookModel.find({ author: { $regex: like, $options: 'i' } }) This emulates the SQL LIKE option As it uses
    the regex in ‘like’ to hold the regular expression and options in this case ‘i’ means case insensitive
▸   More information can be found in the Mongoose documentation. You can write code that interacts directly with
    MongoDB but Mongoose makes it a bit easier and provides the ODM capability. They have tried to make the
    functions as similar to MongoDB functions as they can
▸   Note: Mongoose functionality is promise-based so we don’t need to wrap any of the functions in a promise, you can
    use async / await, or .then() which makes things a bit easier for us
                                                                                     /demos/data/all_http_methods_mongo_demo/
                                                                                                                                288
Deploy into the cloud
▸   You could create an IaaS VM and install MongoDB or
▸   You could create an IaaS VM, install docker and pull a MongoDb container or
▸   You could deploy MongoDB as a PaaS docker container in web apps
▸   Azure cosmos supports multiple dbms including MongoDb
▸   You could deploy MongDB at the SaaS level – but rather than call it Software as a Service, it’s referred to as
    Database as a Service – DBaaS but is at the same cloud level as SaaS but more descriptive for databases
▸   The DBaaS offered by MongoDB is available on all major cloud platforms including Azure




                                                                                                           Demo Atlas

                                                                                                                        289
Create Atlas account and connect
▸   You create a free account and deploy into a fully managed, high performance, scalable MongoDB database:
     ▹    https://www.mongodb.com/home
     ▹    Start free | Fill in details & create | Verify email | login
     ▹    Fill in the tell us about you
     ▹    Select the FREE offering
     ▹    Keep the default region, Ireland in my case, or it may move you onto a dedicated plan which will cost
     ▹    Leave cluster tier, additional settings and Cluster name as is. Double check you’re on the free shared plan before pressing “Create Cluster”
     ▹    Choose Username and Password for authentication and fill in the boxes with what you want BUT DON’T FORGET THEM
     ▹    Create user
     ▹    Connect from: local environment
     ▹    IP List: click add my current IP address. You can add others later if you need (It doesn’t fill in the boxes, it shows them at the bottom of the box)
     ▹    Finish and close
     ▹    Termination protection: Setup if you want, or click close. If you pressed setup, just scroll down and enable
     ▹    We are using the free M0 cluster which is free so don’t change that. Press review changes | apply changes
     ▹    That’s it. Click connect (half way down the page) then Connect your application
     ▹    Choose node.js driver, newest version they have, and copy the connection string for your application. It will look like:
     ▹    mongodb+srv://yourname:<password>@cluster0.xwgfgyz.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true&w=majority
     ▹    A big GOTCHA here is that is doesn’t say you need to define your database here so the connection string is incomplete. It should be:
     ▹    mongodb+srv://yourname:<password>@cluster0.xwgfgyz.mongodb.net/databasename?retryWrites=true&w=majority
     ▹    So in the demo case, it’s bookstore
     ▹    In compass, connect | new connection | add your connection string and you should connect to your atlas database environment
     ▹    Create database | bookstore (or whatever you want)
     ▹    Collection name | books (or whatever – but stick to these if you want to use the example code as-is)
     ▹    Create database
     ▹    Click bookstore | books | import data | JSON | find your json file
     ▹    Add the connection string to your code. Bear in mind that in this basic approach, your username and password are in the string. We can change
          that later using .env but just check it works first
     ▹    If you have issues with IP settings due to using VPN or logging in from different locations, go to your atlas account | network Access | edit | add any
          IP or manually type in 0.0.0.0/0



                                                                                                                                                                    290
Scaling & Resilience
Learning Objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you should be able to:
     ▹    Explain the term "elastic compute" and cite its benefits
     ▹    Explain auto-scaling, draw an auto-scaled architecture with load balancer
     ▹    Explain how you can make your solutions highly available and resilient
     ▹    Compare and contrast vertical and horizontal scaling in "on-premises" and on cloud
     ▹    Explain the key components that make an availability zone resilient to failure
     ▹    Explain how areas above, can be used to make your distributed systems more resilient




                                                                                                 292
▸   We have spent a lot of time on virtualisation and containerisation as these are the most popular modern methods of
    software deployment in enterprise systems.
▸   We will consider how these approaches can help in scaling our systems and improve their resilience and availability
▸   High availability - focusses on the system staying up in the event of expected system failure
     ▹    e.g. a container or VM fails, this is detected, deleted and a new one created
     ▹    during that short period, the system may be a little under-powered but it will recover
     ▹    Employs redundancy to cover failures - e.g. dual power, dual NICs, dual network switches
     ▹    Spread VMs across multiple racks, data replication - typically x 3 in the same data centre
     ▹    A primary goal is for continuous up-time - i.e. no unrecoverable failure in business processes
▸   Resilience
     ▹    An overarching term and includes high availability
     ▹    A system may be highly available but in one data centre, resilience would spread the load across data centres, even regions
     ▹    A system may be resilient in that disks and data are available, but corrupt data would be replicated so available but useless. A
          resilient system would detect the corruption before replication, stop the replication, promote a clean replica if there is one or try
          to rollback to a known clean state
▸   These are often used interchangeably but they are different
     ▹    Well designed systems are likely to be resilient and highly-available

                                                                                                                                                  293
▸   The term "Elastic compute" is popular today and is probably a key reason cloud hosting took off. It refers to:
     ▹    the ability of a computing infrastructure to dynamically adapt and scale its resources based on demand
     ▹    cloud computing environments where the allocation and deallocation of computational resources, such as virtual machines,
          can be adjusted automatically in response to varying workloads
     ▹    the ability to efficiently handle fluctuations in demand, ensuring optimal resource utilisation & performance yet minimising costs


▸   Key components of elastic compute include:
     ▹    Virtualisation. This is the foundation of elastic compute. It allows rapid deployment and scaling of VM instances as needed
     ▹    Auto-scaling. Automatically adds or deletes VMs based on predefined policies or triggers such as CPU, number of requests
     ▹    Load Balancing. This distributes incoming network traffic across multiple computing resources to ensure even utilization and
          prevent overloading of any single instance
     ▹    Containerisation. Containers can be rapidly deployed, scaled, and moved between environments in response to varying
          workloads - particularly if used with an orchestration service such as Kubernetes
     ▹    Orchestration. This deploys containers and VMs, distributes them automatically for elasticity to provide resilience and high-
          availability - e.g. Kubernetes




                                                                                                                                               294
Scaling - on prem
▸   Vertical scaling is making the current machines bigger or smaller (unlikely)
     ▹    what you do when you find that your PC can’t keep up with the latest application or game for example. You get a graphics
          card with a better GPU or maybe you are keen on creating videos and it takes ages to render them – you basically buy a
          new machine with more RAM, storage, faster CPU or whatever
▸   In business you see an increase in demand. What do you do? Write off all your servers and buy bigger ones?
▸   Horizontal scaling. Don't increase the size of the machine but provide more of them and load balance across
    them. This avoids the server write-off but still requires servers to be bought - this is not elastic
▸   This can work well, but in large organisations you need to:
     ▹    create a business case
     ▹    secure funding - for larger sums this needs to go to the treasury for approval in government
     ▹    work with finance and commercials. Commercials will want to put the requirement out to tender for the best price
     ▹    submit the order, finance have to pay the bill, the machines are shipped
     ▹    arange installation and configuration: racked, cabled, network configured, firewalls set up, VMs built, etc
▸   All this can take months - so scalability is possible on-prem but can be very slow
     ▹    If the workload reduces, you can't get your money back on the servers, they just sit there getting warm. This is not elastic
▸   Buying servers is an up-front cost called Capital Expenditure (CapEx)



                                                                                                                                         295
Scaling in the cloud
▸    This is very easy and quick in comparison to on premises
      ▹     Cloud providers have invested in huge resources that they rent out
      ▹     They manage the variable supply and demand. As one person releases a machine, they can accommodate someone else
      ▹     Vertical scaling is possible. Choose a different machine size then migrate your applications, databases etc
▸    Scaling horizontally, elastically, is far more popular. Same type VMs created within minutes using autoscaling
      ▹     Azure uses scale sets, AWS uses auto scaling groups
              ▹     scale on criteria such as %cpu, %memory, number of requests etc
              ▹     Video: Create an Azure scale set.mp4
              ▹     Video: AWS elastic load balancing part 1-3.mp4
                       ▹    Shows autoscaling in action in response to changing client access demand
▸    You can also scale by replicating containers within or across vms
▸    However, adding 10 more VMs with 10 more IP addresses is impractical. Which would a user access?
      ▹     Use a load balancer. This device has one IP address, but it knows the private IP addresses of the new machines
      ▹     All traffic comes into the load balancer, and it distributes traffic according to a distribution algorithm or as simple as round robin


                                                                                                                                                     296
▸   A data centre offers high availability through redundancy including:
     ▹    mains, generator, battery, PSU, NICs, vm rack deployment, replicated data - employs redundancy
▸   Deploy VMs across AZs in a region for resilience
     ▹    AZs are located away from each other for disaster resilience
     ▹    A load balancer can balance across AZs and scale sets
▸   VNet stretches across all AZs in a region
     ▹    Subnets also stretch across all AZs in a region. i.e. it's like they are in the same building but geographically disperse




                                                                                                                                      297
Load balancing
                                                 L4
                                                       App
                                                      Servers


                                                                L4


                                 Load Balancer




                                                                     Database
                      L4
                                                                      Server




                 L7
                                                 L4

                         API
                       Gateway




                                 Load Balancer




                                                       Web
                                                      Servers



                                                                                298
A Relational Database Scaling Pattern
▸   Read-replicas:
    Typically there are many more reads from a database than writes so
    one approach to try to overcome this is to create read replicas
▸   That is where the master server is the only one allowed to perform
    updates but those updates can be copied to read-only copies for
    others to access
▸   If these replicas are on different machines, they will be connected via
    a network so there will be some latency in updating the replicas
▸   They could be in different countries to keep read latency lower but
    update latency is longer
▸   This latency will create data inconsistencies, which may be acceptable
    as they may only be wrong for a very short time but it needs to be
    considered. i.e., what is the business impact
▸   The eventual consistency of the data over a short period of time is
    called eventual consistency
▸   This approach provides high availability as the read replicas can be in
    different data centres - or different regions but it comes at the cost of
    data consistency


                                                                                299
Container Orchestration using
Kubernetes
Learning Objectives
▸   Upon successfully completing this section, you should be able to:
     ▹ Explain what Kubernetes is
     ▹ What benefits does it offer over Docker Compose
     ▹ Describe the K8s architecture
     ▹ Explain the operation and key components of the control plane
     ▹ Explain the following terms: Cluster, Node, Pod
     ▹ Explain the key properties of the following objects:
          ▹ Replica Set
          ▹ Deployment
          ▹ Service
          ▹ ClusterIP
          ▹ NodePort
          ▹ LoadBalancer
          ▹ ConfigMap
          ▹ Secret
     ▹ Explain how Kubernetes enables deployment of an application upgrade to multiple pod replicas with no downtime
     ▹ Explain how we can rollback from a failed upgrade

                                                                                                                       301
Kubernetes
▸   To manage, monitor and scale many docker containers requires an orchestration application. Docker provides
    Docker Swarm, but the most popular container orchestration application is Kubernetes
▸   Kubernetes is free and open source. User is responsible for all infrastructure at an IaaS level. Responsibility is on the
    client, but they have full control
▸   To simplify container deployment and management, the major cloud providers offer container and Kubernetes
    services; these are PaaS services so deploy and manage the infrastructure, i.e. network, VMs, storage, Operating
    system etc., for you
▸   PaaS can be a benefit in that a lot of responsibility is passed over to the cloud provider. A disadvantage is that it likely
    costs more, you have less control, and you are effectively locked-in to that supplier to some extent
▸   In AWS, various services are available
     ▹     ECS - Elastic Container Service. This PaaS service is to some extent Amazon's bespoke version of Kubernetes or Docker
           swarm orchestration so is a vendor lock-in option. It can enable full control by deploying containers to EC2 IaaS, so you have
           detailed control, or Fargate which is the PaaS option for running containers
     ▹     EKS - Elastic Kubernetes service. This PaaS service provides a Kubernetes orchestration platform. Deployment is via kops or
           CloudFormation templates so it's a bit more complex but less lock-in. AWS manage the control plane (which you pay for) and
           you pay for the ec2 VMs running in the cluster
▸   In Azure, the Kubernetes service is AKS (Azure Kubernetes Service) and the container service is ACI (Azure
    Container Instances). Other services will accept container images such as Azure webapps


                                                                                                                                            302
Kubernetes
▸   A system could consist of hundreds or thousands of containers, so we need a means of being able to automate the
    creation, start, stop, delete and scaling of microservices; i.e., a container orchestrator
▸   We may want to scale containers in a vm and load balance, or scale vms, or both
▸   Kubernetes, coupled with the right architectural design, can enable system operation with basically zero downtime
    even during application upgrades
▸   Docker is used to create images - Kubernetes works with Docker to deploy and manage containers
▸   For simplicity Kubernetes is shortened to k8s (k, 8 letters, and s)
▸   The architecture consists of three key components:
     ▹     A cluster: this encapsulates all other components
     ▹     Nodes: these are typically VMs. There is a master node (control plane) that controls worker nodes
     ▹     A pod: a pod lives on a node - there can be several. A pod is an abstraction of a container
▸   So, think of a worker node as a vm onto which we deploy pods and in a pod is a container - usually one
▸   The master node is responsible for deploying and managing pods on a node - e.g. if a pod dies, the master can
    detect it, delete it and create a new one
▸   As a vm (or the physical machine) is a SPOF, the master is capable of creating and managing multiple pods across
    multiple nodes across multiple AZs for high availability and resilience
▸   Using a Cluster Autoscaler open source component, K8S can interact with cloud services to create and destroy
    nodes on demand for higher level scalability
                                                                                                                        303
▸   Kubernetes is popular for managing distributed systems as it enables:
     ▹   High availability (no downtime) and resilience
     ▹   Elastic Scalability - easily and automatically horizontally scale
     ▹   Disaster recovery - can backup and restore data
     ▹   Load balancing traffic across pods
     ▹   Rolling updates and rollbacks - gradually rolls out update to each pod to avoid downtime
     ▹   Can set resource limits to prevent containers from consuming excessive resources
     ▹   The system architecture, resource limits etc are declaratively specified in YAML or JSON
     ▹   Self-healing - if a pod fails, it is automatically detected, and a new one is created and the old one deleted
     ▹   A deleted pod is recreated with a different name
     ▹   Works on-prem and in all the cloud providers
     ▹   Built-in security - network and pod policies and RBAC




                                                                                                                         304
                                                           UI            API      CLI
                         API Server                                                                Control plane is
                    enables external                                                                 the "brain" of
                       requests    and                                                                 the cluster.
                    Control    Manager                                                               Usually more
                     internal
                   looks        comms
                           for changes                                                                 etcd is open
                         with reported
                               node                                  API Server                       than one for          A pod is an
                    in
                     Thestate
                           Scheduler                                                                      source
                                                                                                        resilience        abstraction of a
                     fromrequests
                     decidesthewhich
                                 nodes                                                               distributed key
                    via API.   e.g. pod
                                                                     Controller                     value data store      container. i.e. it
                  node    to instruct  its                           Manager                                                 contains a
                     is dead
                  kubelet    to so fix ita
                                create                         A kublete is an                     for system config
                                                                                                         and state         container, but
                  new pod instructed                         agent on   the nodetcd
                                                                 Scheduler
                                                                                                                            we just deal
                      by controller                          that creates pods                                               with pods
                                                             and reports
                                                           Control          health
                                                                   Plane (Mstr Node)
                                                                 back to the
                                                              control  plane
                                                                   Virtual     via
                                                                           Network
                                                                      API
   A node is
basically a VM.
  The worker
  nodes host
   pods and
   services
                                Kubelet                    Kubelet                      Kubelet                 Kubelet




                          Worker Node 1                Worker Node 2               Worker Node 3           Worker Node n



                                          Kubernetes cluster high level logical architecture
                                                                                                                                               305
                              Data Engineering Solution Architecture

                                      SSH database admin




                                                                                 ▸   We will deploy this architecture to Kubernetes on the
                                                                                     local machine
                   4000    data          4002
                                                               Public Network    ▸   Kubernetes uses YAML to declaratively state the
                  upload                 caller                                      desired system configuration, i.e., pods, services,
                                                               Public Network
                   3000                   3002                                       volumes etc
                                                               Private Network
                                                                                 ▸   I'll only deploy one database, but you have seen how
                                                                                     easy it is to exchange them



Virtual Machine
                                                                                 ▸   This can be redrawn to better see the k8s architecture
                           4001                        3307
                                                       4003

                            etl                       mysql
                           3001                        3306
                                                       3306
                                                                      mysql-db

                                                       3307
                                                       4004

                                                     mongo
                                                       27017
                                                       3306          mongo-db


                                   Docker Engine
                                      Host OS
                                  Physical Machine
                                                                                                                                             306
              browser (localhost:nodePort) -> service(port) -> pod(targetPort) -> node app(env var)



                                                                                                      Public Network
                                                                                                      Private Network


                                                Kubernetes Local Cluster


    30000           data         30001                30002                 30006
   upload                         etl                caller             mysql-svr               API                     Other
  NodePort                     NodePort             NodePort            NodePort               Server                   Stuff
    8080                         3001                 8080                  3003




   3000                         3001                 3002                 3306
     4000                         4000                4000                4000
  upload
      4000                       etl4000            caller
                                                        4000            mysql-svr
                                                                            4000
    pod                          pod                  pod                  pod                            Secret
   upload                       upload               upload
     upload
deployment
     pod                         upload
                             deployment
                                  pod                 upload
                                                  deployment            deployment
                                                       pod                                              ConfigMap
      pod
    3000                           pod
                                3001                   pod
                                                     3002                   3306
                                                                                                         all state

                                                                                                           etcd


                                                                           mysql-pv

                                           Worker Node                                            Master Node

                                                         Host OS
                                                     Physical Machine
                                                                                                                                307
Kubernetes Objects

                                               App1 Service




      IP 1           IP 2           IP n                          IP 10         IP 11           IP m

     App1.0       App1.0           App1.0                        App1.1       App1.1           App1.1
      Pod1         Pod2            Pod 'n'                        Pod1         Pod2            Pod 'n'



              App 1.0 ReplicaSet                                          App 1.1 ReplicaSet



                                              App 1 Deployment




                                             Rolling update
                                                                                                         308
Kubernetes Objects

▸   Pod
     ▹    A pod is an abstraction of, generally a single container, or multiple containers
     ▹    Pods are the smallest deployable units of compute that you can create and manage in Kubernetes
     ▹    It could host a whole application or part of one
     ▹    K8S decides which node the pod will run on
     ▹    K8S automatically recreates a deleted pod but with a different name
     ▹    K8S runs one instance of each pod you define and allocates it a single IP address even if it hosts more than
          one container
     ▹    We don't interact with pods directly as they are ephemeral, e.g., memory leak may cause a pod crash. It is replaced, but
          the new pod may have a different IP address, so maintenance is difficult. We interact with services which access pods




                                                                                                                                     309
Kubernetes Key Objects
▸   ReplicaSet
     ▹    A single pod is unreliable. If it dies, you lose your service - at least for some time
     ▹    A replica set object can sit above a pod and is used to create multiple pod replicas - like a scale set or autoscale group
     ▹    You can specify the number of pod replicas you need then load balance across them
     ▹    A limitation to ReplcaSet is that an upgrade is a change to a container, so all the pods need to be deleted, upgraded and
          recreated. So, the ReplicaSet object will no longer be useful as it was created to manage specific pod version. We need a new
          replica set to manage the auto scaling of the new pods with the new containers - i.e. we have some downtime for an upgrade
     ▹    We can request replicas to be spread across nodes to protect against node failure
▸   Deployment
     ▹    A deployment sits above a replica set so can control, create and delete them. This enables rolling updates with no downtime
     ▹    Say we have a new image and apply it to the cluster. The deployment creates a new additional ReplicaSet with the desired
          number of pods and containers based on the new image. When it determines the pods are healthy, it will set the replica count
          of the old ReplicaSet to zero, so it can delete the old pods as the new ones are brought into service
     ▹    The ReplicaSet isn't deleted, so if something goes wrong, you can switch back to the old ReplicaSet and resurrect the old pods
          with a single command and the state is auto-rolled back
     ▹    By default, k8s will save the last 10 deployments if multiple rollbacks are required




                                                                                                                                           310
▸   Service
     ▹    A service sits above a ReplicaSet or deployment and is the way in to access these components and pods. They route traffic to
          one or more pods. A service (not a good descriptive name) has a fixed IP address and is not deleted when its associated pods
          are, so when a new pod is created, it will be immediately contactable as the load balancer manages the pod IPs
     ▹    If we use a single pod for an app and it dies, users will have no access to the app until the pod is recreated
     ▹    If we create multiple replicas of a pod, the service can load balance across them - ensuring no downtime if a single pod dies
     ▹    If pods are spread across multiple nodes and nodes are spread across multiple AZs, the service can reach them all as it uses
          a common network
▸   There are four service types
     ▹    NodePort - this exposes the service on a static port on each node's IP. i.e., a service is accessible from outside the cluster.
          This is useful in development - like when we exposes container ports to the internet during testing
     ▹    ClusterIP - this is default. Service is only accessible inside the cluster on its internal network. It can load balance across
          multiple pods identified by a Selector Label
     ▹    LoadBalancer - a ClusterIP service will load balance internally, but this service is to provide integration to a cloud service load
          balancer. i.e. the cloud load balancer can distribute traffic to this service and is typically used in production
     ▹    ExternalName - unlike the others, this is not a load balancing service. It enables the provision of a dns name that services
          outside the cluster that wish to access a service within the cluster, can do so by using its dns name rather than needing to
          know an IP address. It can also be used to provide access to external services via a dns name from within the cluster
▸   ConfigMap and Secret
     ▹    These objects provide environment variables like .env


                                                                                                                                                311
Config maps
▸   Many applications need config values that are not secret. These can
    be provided statically using env vars in each pod definition, but this
    tightly couples the component because if, for example, the port of
    one container app is changed then any callers of it would need their
    .yaml files editing
▸   A config map is an API object where values are key value pairs
▸   Values can be entered imperatively at the command line and they
    will be added to the ConfigMap object that can be referenced in the
    pod definition. e.g. kubectl create configmap configmap-name --
    from-literal=key=value
▸   Alternatively, the config map object can be created declaratively in a
    .yaml file then applied as usual. This will also inject config values into
    the pods. Used instead of .env




                                                                                 312
Secrets
▸   Basically .env for credentials and keys
▸   Values can be stored in base64 (as keys tend to be in) or as strings
▸




                                                                           313
Volumes & HPA
Volumes
▸   Volumes need to be defined
▸   We could use local storage or specify external storage like Azure BLOB or AW S3
▸   Specify type, size, etc similar to Docker
▸   We specify the size of disk on the node with a persistent volume type
▸   We create a PersistentVolumeClaim type to specify our storage needs
▸   This is static binding. Dynamic binding is also available for use with say BLOB storage - the claim is
    made and that amount of BLOB is allocated


HorizontalPodAutoscaler
▸   This object type enables you to specify min and max replica values and it will autoscale between those
    values depending on various metrics such as traffic load, cpu use, memory
▸   If another VM is needed to scale up to the max pods, it will be auto-created



                                                                                                             314
                                          App1 Service




 IP 1          IP 2            IP n                          IP 10         IP 11           IP m

App1.0       App1.0           App1.0                        App1.1       App1.1           App1.1
 Pod1         Pod2            Pod 'n'                        Pod1         Pod2            Pod 'n'



         App 1.0 ReplicaSet                                          App 1.1 ReplicaSet



                                         App 1 Deployment




                                        Rolling update
                                                                                                    315
Deploying Kubernetes
▸   There are a number of options
     ▹    minikube - a lightweight version for local use. Requires a local VM such as docker, virtual box or similar
     ▹    docker desktop - this now has a version built-in
     ▹    kops - this is a k8s deployment onto cloud VMs so is cloud agnostic, but you need to support it
     ▹    cloud services - all the big cloud hosts provide IaaS and PaaS options to deploy k8s
▸   If you want to try k8s
     ▹    If you are using a modern version of Windows - win 10 pro or win 11, you can try docker desktop (I'll use that)
     ▹    If you are using something else, or desktop doesn't work for you, you can try to use docker's vm
     ▹    If that doesn't work, you can download a hypervisor such as virtual box, load minikube onto it and try that




                                                                                                                            316
                              Data Engineering Solution Architecture

                                      SSH database admin




                                                                                 ▸   This architecture is redrawn in terms of Kubernetese
                                                                                     pods and services next
                   4000    data          4002
                                                               Public Network    ▸   It will be deployed locally in a Kubernetes cluster
                  upload                 caller
                   3000                   3002
                                                               Public Network    ▸   It will then be deployed to the Azure Kubernetes
                                                                                     service and made available on the internet
                                                               Private Network




Virtual Machine
                           4001                        3307
                                                       4003

                            etl                       mysql
                           3001                        3306
                                                       3306
                                                                      mysql-db

                                                       3307
                                                       4004

                                                     mongo
                                                       27017
                                                       3306          mongo-db


                                   Docker Engine
                                      Host OS
                                  Physical Machine
                                                                                                                                            317
              browser (localhost:nodePort) -> service(port) -> pod(targetPort) -> node app(env var)



                                                                                                      Public Network
                                                                                                      Private Network


                                                Kubernetes Local Cluster


    30000           data         30001                30002                 30006
   upload                         etl                caller             mysql-svr               API                     Other
  NodePort                     NodePort             NodePort            NodePort               Server                   Stuff
    8080                         3001                 8080                  3003




   3000                         3001                 3002                 3306
     4000                         4000                4000                4000
  upload
      4000                       etl4000            caller
                                                        4000            mysql-svr
                                                                            4000
    pod                          pod                  pod                  pod                            Secret
   upload                       upload               upload
     upload
deployment
     pod                         upload
                             deployment
                                  pod                 upload
                                                  deployment            deployment
                                                       pod                                              ConfigMap
      pod
    3000                           pod
                                3001                   pod
                                                     3002                   3306
                                                                                                         all state

                                                                                                           etcd


                                                                           mysql-pv

                                           Worker Node                                            Master Node

                                                         Host OS
                                                     Physical Machine                             /demos/docker/compose-etl
                                                                                                                                318
                                                      browser (localhost: port) -> pod(targetPort) -> node app(env var)



                                                                                                           Public Network
                                                                                                           Private Network


        Azure LB           Kubernetes Cluster on Cloud               Azure LB




                   8080      data        3001                 8080                3306
               upload                     etl                 caller            mysql-svr               API                  Other
            LoadBalancer               ClusterIP          LoadBalancer          ClusterIP              Server                Stuff
               service                  service              service             service




               8080                     3001                 3002                 3306
                 4000                     4000                4000                4000
              upload
                  4000                   etl4000            caller
                                                                4000            mysql-svr
                                                                                    4000
               pod                       pod                  pod                  pod                            Secret
              upload                    upload               upload
               upload
           deployment
                pod                      upload
                                     deployment
                                          pod                 upload
                                                          deployment            deployment
                                                               pod                                              ConfigMap
                 pod
              3000                         pod
                                        3001                   pod
                                                             3002                  3306
                                                                                                                 all state

                                                                                                                   etcd


                                                                                 mysql-pv
Other
                                                   Worker Node                                            Master Node
Nodes
                                                                 Host OS
                                                             Physical Machine                             /demos/docker/compose-etl
                                                                                                                                      319
Some useful Kubernetes commands
▸   kubectl get all # this shows all pods and other components such as services
▸   kubectl get pods # just gets pods
▸   kubectl get po # short version of above - hardly though
▸   kubectl get po --show-labels # lists pods and labels
▸   kubectl apply -f first-pod.yaml #create component based on the script in the file and add to the cluster


▸   minikube start #what it says
▸   minikube stop #what it says. Mine defaults to using docker as the vm
▸   minikube ip #get the cluster ip address

▸   kubectl describe pod/webapp # (use pod name) creates a load of ;info about the component
▸   kubectl exec webapp ls is now kubectl exec webapp -- ls #execute command in pod / container. In this case list the files. e.g. kubectl exec webapp -- ls -a

▸   kubectl -it exec webapp -- sh #get shell like in docker
▸   kubectl apply -f . #apply all files in the current dir without naming them
▸   kubectl delete pod podname Note: if you change an env var in the config.yaml you need to restart the pod. Just delete it and it will restart
▸   kubectl delete component component_name # e.g. kubectl delete pod webapp
▸   kubectl delete component component_name --force #force it to stop

▸   # to delete if part of a deployment, i.e. stop it keep coming back under a different name, delete the deployment. Deletes pod but doesn't delete service
▸   kubectl get deployment # see what they are called
▸   kubectl delete deployment # e.g. kubectl delete deployment mysql

▸   kubectl delete pods --all # to delete all pods. Can do the same for other components
▸   kubectl delete all --all --all-namespaces # deletes everything or in docker desktop reset kubernetes cluster




                                                                                                                                                                  320
▸   kubectl describe replicaset name
▸   or
▸   kubectl describe rs webapp
▸   kubectl delete rs webapp # to delete a replica set as deleting nodes will cause them to come back. This also deletes the pods in the set
▸   kubectl rollout status deployment webapp # watch the deployment happen
▸   kubectl rollout history deployment webapp # list the history of deployments
▸   kubectl rollout undo deployment webapp # rollback to previous version
▸   kubectl rollout undo deployment webapp --to-revision=x # if there are several you can go back to whichever number you want to with this switch. By default
    k8s will remember the last 10

▸   kubectl get namespace # list all namespaces. Use ns for short
▸   kubectl get pods -n namespace # e.g. kubectl get pods -n kube-system
▸   kubectl get all -n namespace # get all components

▸   nslookup # to resolve dns name to ip address or visa versa

▸   kubectl delete -f filename.yaml # delete all resources created by that file.
▸   kubectl delete -f . # delete from all files in the current folder
▸   or
▸   if using docker desktop, press the reset button - we are left with just the kubernetese API service which we need
▸   kubectl get all -o wide # gets a bit more info
▸   kubectl logs podName # what it says
▸   kubectl logs -f podName # -f is follow i.e. it keeps updating but it takes ovet the shell
▸   kubectl get pv # as get all doesn't list them pv will list the persistent volumes
▸   kubectl get nodes #to list how many and their names

▸   kubectl create secret generic … # look up details how to fully create. e.g. kubectl create secret generic mysql-root-pass --from-literal=password=root
▸   kubectl delete secret name #delete the name. e.g. kubectl delete secret mysql-user-pass
▸   kubectl get secrets # to list them
▸   kubectl describe secrets # for more info

▸   # To switch contexts say from Azure back to client
▸   kubectl config get-contexts # List the contexts so you can choose what to switch to
▸   kubectl config use-context <new context> # e.g. kubectl config use-context docker-desktop or kubectl config use-context junk to go back

                                                                                                                                                                 321
